I've always believed there had to be a
better way to move an object from point
A to point B. There just had to be. So,
I spent two decades looking at hidden
momentum.
>> You do think you've discovered a
propulsion mechanism that can get us
interstellar travel. I take those
lifters and I put them in a plastic box
and put on a scale. You turn it on, the
thing lifts up and the weight flat
lines. Does not move at all. Still about
200 microns of force still inside.
>> How many variations of this experiment
do you think you've tried? We are close
to 2,000
>> 2,000 instances of the experiment or
2,000
>> 2,000 variations.
>> Holy
>> Two test articles. Each one is tested
multiple times.
>> If you were to apply that to like a
satellite in space in a zero gravity
environment, it would accelerate with
the power off. Can't explain that to the
scientific community. I just can't.
>> The idea that you could just charge it
up and leave it there and it gets
thrust. Like it hurts my brain to even
imagine how is that possible.
>> These are very weird things.
>> It's like you create this thrust mode
that just keeps going.
>> I don't think I'm bending spaceime.
Maybe.
>> For over a century, humanity's journey
to the stars has been held hostage by a
simple, unyielding truth. Newton's third
law. For every action, there's an equal
and opposite reaction.
It's the law that powers every rocket,
every satellite, every probe we've ever
launched. And it's also the law that
keeps us trapped here on Earth. In order
to get to the closest habitable planet
in our very own Milky Way galaxy, a
place called Proxima Centauri B, it
would take you 50 to 80,000 years in a
chemical combustion rocket. You would
die before even getting 1% of the way
there. And if you somehow figured out a
way to live for thousands of years, by
the time you came back to Earth after a
trip like that, it would be totally
unrecognizable. You'd be playing out the
ending of the Planet of the Apes.
>> You maniac.
>> To go anywhere in space, you have to
carry fuel. Massive amounts of it. Over
90% of any rocket's mass at launch is
just propellant. pure fuel burned and
ejected out of the back to push the
remaining 10% forward. Launching a
rocket to get a satellite into space is
like flying a fully loaded 747 to
deliver a suitcase.
>> One of the challenges we have to solve
is orbital refilling where we dock on
orbit and transfer propellant.
>> The modern king of rocketry and Mr.
Occupy Mars himself, Elon Musk, has
publicly stated that Newton's laws are
the end all beall for space travel. For
some reason, he's quite adamant about
that.
>> Uh there's no way around Newton's third
law really. You you basically have to
expel mass.
>> The original godfather of American
rocketry, Jack Parsons, believed this as
well. In 1936, he and some colleagues at
Caltech began launching the first rocket
tests in western Pasadena.
But what most people don't know is that
a decade before Jack Parsons in the
1920s, there was someone else at Caltech
with some very different ideas for deep
space travel.
>> Towns and Brown.
>> Townsen Brown.
>> There's a guy named Towns and Brown.
>> Okay. Okay. Towns and brown. Brown had
stumbled onto something that mainstream
science still refuses to acknowledge.
A possible break in Newton's laws. A new
force or perhaps a way to manipulate
gravity itself with electromagnetism.
Unifying these two fundamental forces
has been the holy grail of physics for
the last century. What Einstein died
searching for.
Towns and Brown discovered that when you
apply a high voltage to certain
asymmetric capacitors, they produce
thrust. No fuel, no exhaust, no
propellant, just electricity converted
directly into motion. A new model for
space propulsion that could eliminate
crude chemical combustion forever.
Brown called his anti-gravity work
electrogravidics. Meanwhile, physics
textbooks called it impossible. And
because of that, he was dismissed,
ridiculed, and eventually erased from
the official story of physics.
But if you dig a bit deeper and read his
incredible biography by Paul Shatskin,
you start to piece together a very
different picture. One in which Townsen
Brown isn't easily dismissed as an
amateur quack. In fact, his work was
witnessed by the highest levels of
government and military. Now, we're
getting into some interesting territory.
People like notorious Air Force Chief of
Staff Curtis Lame, who courted Brown
constantly. People like Edward Teller,
the father of the hydrogen bomb. Bill
Lear, the founder of the first private
jet, and Agnu Bonson, founder of the
Institute of Field Physics at North
Carolina. A lieutenant colonel from
Wright Airfield who went on to become a
general named Victor Bertrandius
witnessed Brown's gravitator experiments
in Los Angeles in 1952. He was quoted as
saying, "Believe it or not, I think I
just saw a flying saucer and it
frightened me."
And if that's not all, we have audio of
a deathbed confession from French
aerospace executive Jacqu Cornon, who
witnessed Brown's successful experiments
in a vacuum chamber in 1956 in Paris,
explicitly stating he witnessed a
positive result.
>> So that was a positive result.
>> This is to go along with an 12 page
report around that specific experiment
that's widely available online today.
Nonetheless, stigma, tech protection,
and scientific suppression are all very
real. Brown's work is still likely
classified by the Navy to this day. Over
the last 70 years, Brown's experiments
never went away. They just went
underground. They've been replicated all
over the world in places as far as
Japan, but usually by persistent
hobbyist teams or aerospace engineers
stringing some funds together and
operating out of pure passion. But in
deep black American aerospace, I believe
Brown's work still exists in the form of
whispers and vital subcompartments where
it gets explored further. Okay, so
that's the backdrop. Newton has us stuck
on Earth. Industry titans like Elon
can't be bothered to explore new
propulsion modalities and towns and
Brown is a total ghost relegated to
quacky UFO circles. That is until today.
Inside a quiet lab in Florida, NASA's
lead electrostatic scientist, a man
named Dr. Charles Buer has been running
the same gravity altering tests as
Thomas Townsen Brown. When we see about
0.1 g that corresponds to about 1 mill
of thrust
>> only this time with modern instruments
more rigorous controls and decades of
electrostatics expertise from his work
at Kennedy Space Center behind him. And
what he's measuring is thrust. Real
repeatable directional thrust. No
combustion, no reaction mass. The future
of space travel. We say we have an
energy crisis. Oh my god, the energy
crisis. Well, it could be considered an
energy crisis, but it's really a force
crisis. It's a transportation crisis.
How do you get an object from here to
here?
>> At his company, Exodus Propulsion
Technologies, Beller isn't just
replicating Towns and Brown's work. He's
validating it, scaling it, showing
literal weight loss on scales due to
upward thrust. Again, Pewer is not some
mid-level guy at NASA. He's the lead
electrostatic scientist in the entire
agency.
>> And you're also, I believe, about to be
the president of the electrostatic
society, too.
>> That's correct. And he's contributed two
fundamental principles to the field of
electrostatics that are now widely
accepted. The question is no longer
whether the Bfield Brown effect is real
or not. The question is where could this
lead humanity? How can we scale this up?
And what is the theoretical physics
behind it? On this last question,
Charles goes deeper on this show than he
has in any other interview on his own
quantum electronamics based theory
around how this force works. And I
brought in my friend, a brilliant MIT
trained physicist named David Chester to
help stress test and sharpen Beller's
theory. What happens when propulsion no
longer requires fuel? When the tyranny
of rocket equations finally breaks?
Without further ado, please welcome this
week's amazing American alchemist, NASA
and Exodus Propulsion's very own Dr.
Charles Buer.
>> Ignition sequence.
>> How is this possible?
>> Nothing too unusual about that.
>> Their existence cannot longer be denied.
Before we continue, I want to take a
second to thank one of my favorite
products in the world, Ketone IQ, for
sponsoring today's episode. Ketone IQ is
one of the very few things I use that
gives me clean, sustainable energy
without the crash. It's just this little
shot and I take a drink and I feel like
I'm on fire. No ups, no downs, no
nervous system weirdness, just clean,
clear mental energy. The reason it works
is pretty simple. It gives your brains
ketones, which are almost by definition
its most efficient fuel source. Instead
of pushing your system, it actually
feeds it. In fact, your body
indogenously produces ketones. So when
you drink this, it supports deep focus,
long conversations, and sustained mental
performance. It was originally developed
through a multi-million dollar military
program designed for high stress
environments where cognitive performance
really matters. And today, it's used by
founders, researchers, podcasters like
myself, and people who need their mind
to work when it counts. I always take a
sip of one of these things before long
podcasts. This product is also really
personal for me because I've known the
founders, Jeff and Michael, for over a
decade. These guys are awesome, and for
as long as I've known them, they've
tried every supplement, biohack, and
neutropic under the sun. So, it was a
pretty good signal to me that they
decided to start a company around
ketones. I use Ketone IQ regularly. It's
like a mental cheat code and it's
genuinely one of the cleanest energy
sources I've ever found. So, before we
get back into the episode, please visit
ketone.com/alchemy
for 30% off your subscription order,
plus receive a free gift with your
second shipment. Again, that's
ketone.com/alchemy
for 30% off your order. Or you can find
ketoneq at target stores nationwide and
get your first shot free. Seriously,
this stuff works. Thanks so much to
Ketone IQ for sponsoring today's
episode. Everyone talks about the
Bermuda Triangle, but no one warns you
about its colder, weirder cousin. In the
heart of Alaska lies the Alaska
Triangle, where planes disappear, hikers
vanish, and the only thing that shows up
reliably is my Wild Alaskan Company
seafood box. I'm being serious here,
guys. I definitely don't trust flying
over portals, but I do trust this fish.
Most seafood, I can't even look at it
without wondering if it was farmed in a
glowing vat near a nuclear power plant.
But this fish, 100% wild caught, flash
frozen off the boat, delivered straight
to my door like it teleported through
one of Eric Davis's wormholes, and it
still tastes better than just about
anything your cousin microwaves. No
antibiotics, no additives, no fish farm
sludge, just real fish. Coo salmon,
Pacific halibit, and my favorite, the
sckeye salmon. Not all fish are the
same. Get seafood you can trust. Go to
wild alaskan.com/jesse
for $35 off your first box of premium
wildcaugh seafood. That's
wildaskan.com/jesse
for $35 off your first order. Thank you
so much to Wild Alaskan Company for
sponsoring this episode.
I'm here with Charles Beller who uh this
is a holy grail interview for me. I'm
like a kid on Christmas because it's
been like the search for Beller. Uh ever
since uh you know we connected a couple
years ago cuz I made this Towns and
Brown documentary and as you know and my
audience knows I'm obsessed with this
mid-century inventor Thomas Towns and
Brown. I think he found a real force
that lies outside of either the four
fundamental forces might have merged
gravity and electromagnetism. I don't
quite know but something that transcends
kind of our chemical combustion
modalities that will take us
interstellar. And as soon as I came out
with that, bunch of people hit me up and
they're like, you got to talk to Charles
Beller. He's the lead electrostatic
scientist at NASA and he's been doing
this experiment, but his own kind of
version of it, his updated, better
version of it, uh, in a vacuum chamber
he's had access to for a decade plus.
And so we connected a little bit. We
kind of fell off. I'm so grateful to
have you here now. Um, it's just a total
honor. Um, and you're also, I believe,
about to be the president of the
Electrostatic Society, too. That's
correct. So you have the credentials to
say if you're saying that you we found
another force you have as good of
credentials as anybody. Is that right? I
mean you don't say
you know I think I know enough about
electrostatics to say that but we're all
we're always still learning. What's your
current job title? So I am the lead
scientist of NASA's electrostatics and
surface physics laboratory at part of
swamp works at Kennedy Space Center. So
before I go on, I have to diverse to to
make everyone aware that this is not,
you know, affiliated with NASA. Any of
this work that we're doing
>> not sanctioned by NASA and it's we are
not given any um credence to NASA in
this
>> disclaimer accepted. I think maybe it's
a little bizarre that NASA wouldn't want
to immediately kind of jump on,
>> but they're probably going to be a
customer later on. They're not um we're
not working this technology at NASA.
It's not in my laboratory. We're not.
But you are, is it safe to say you're
the lead electrostatics scientist at all
of NASA?
>> I would say that. I mean, we only have
one electrostatics lab in all of NASA
and I lead it. So,
>> and you run it.
>> So, by default, yes.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, uh again, if uh this
sort of force were attributable to basic
electrostatics, you would know.
>> Sure.
>> Let's let's back up a second. And you
know that's a really impressive cool
title. What does somebody who leads
electrostatics at NASA do?
Our lab does a lot of things. Um it was
founded about 26 years ago by Dr. Carlos
Gier, a physicist who uh spent a summer
working at Kennedy Space Center. Came
back the following year and started the
lab. Um we do electrostatics at NASA uh
at Kennedy Space Center because of
incidents that occurred in the 1960s.
So, there was an incident that trapped
11 people in a spin test facility um
where they accidentally set off a
rocket, a solid rocket and uh there were
some casualties there. So, we also had
the Apollo fire that you've heard about.
So, we've lost I think 14 people to
electrostatics at NASA. So, Kennedy
Space Center has kind of led this effort
to study this phenomena and test it. Um
and a lot of the tests that we do that
we've been doing um date to the 1960s
long before they had standardized
testing from electrostatics. So Dr.
Carlos Kai filmed or filmed he formed a
research arm of that test um about 26
years ago when aren't there also issues
with uh lunar dust you know getting
attracted to the lunar lander and
electrostatics uh sort of allowing or
removing the dust or something like
that. Is that is that a thing?
>> Yes. So when I get on the when I on the
stand and I talk about these things on
my pedestal, I always talk about the
safety and need to study electrostatics,
but no one pays us to study
electrostatics. You know, it's a case by
case thing where people will give us
funding to look at and investigate just
like any other investigation.
But doesn't pay the day, you know,
doesn't pay the bills. So what we've
done is we've understood some of the
needs for NASA that are in the
electrostatics um realm. For example,
the dust mitigation aspect. So dust is
considered one of the two greatest
challenges that have to be overcome uh
for long-term human presence on the moon
>> or Mars. The dust was uh um was very
problematic for the Apollo astronauts
where they couldn't even do a fourth
EVA. They could do three, they couldn't
do four. dust would clog the the suits
and get into the to the arms into the
helmet into the into the joints and it
just prevented uh further you know EVAs
extra vehicle activities. So the dust
mitigation is a serious one. It's taken
by NASA. I think every center is working
on it. Um but we actually have many dust
mitigation technologies that we've
developed over the years. Uh the our
primary one is the electronamic dust
shield the EDS. So, this uses a a a
surface that has embedded electrodes
inside of it that lifts and removes dust
without moving parts or gases or fluids
or anything.
>> Wow.
>> So, we can embed that into glass. We can
embed that into thermal radiators, uh,
solar panels, solar arrays, all kinds of
materials.
>> Very cool. And wasn't there recently
like a lunar dust mission?
>> That's right. So, we're almost just over
a year ago, we landed our our EDS
payload had nine EDS's on there. Uh so
there were six EDS's used to get dust
onto us so we can use our EDS to get
show that we can get it off.
>> So we tested a thermal radiator EDS and
we tested uh a glass EDS on the moon and
a camera EDS. So we tested the
technology on the lunar surface
successful.
That's amazing.
>> So you worked 25 years on something, you
finally get it to the moon and it works.
You're you're pretty happy.
>> Congratulations. Yeah, it would suck if
it didn't after 25 years. It's a lot of
sunk cost, a lot of time and uh fruit
and energy. One other very credibility
enhancing thing about you uh that I
think it's really important to note is
you've contributed to the field of
electrostatics outside of this anomalous
force that you're talking about. Is that
right? That's right. So, you know, I've
been in electrostatics for 26 years and
it's um it's been around obviously for a
very long time, but it doesn't get the
attention that the other scientific
disciplines get. I don't feel uh it
shouldn't be the case where I come in
you know as a young kid uh and I should
not be discovering phenomena in
electrostatics you know like I did with
the
showing that there's no brush discharges
in high vacuum conditions high vacuum
conditions I know obviously people don't
have access to that but it was not you
know generally accepted that this did
not happen under vacuum you know pulling
off charges from an insulator we know
that happens very well in air why
doesn't that happen in in high vacuum
when We were able to show that you
cannot get the brush discharges the way
you do in vacuum as you do air.
It's more of a gas breakdown effect,
which could be, you know, expected, but
it was never shown. So, it's a little
bit surprising.
>> And you were the first person that
showed that
>> as far as I can tell. Yeah.
>> In the literature.
>> So, and that's, you know, obviously
because I had interest to do that for
the NASA mission. Um, not a lot of
people want to do electrostatics in high
vacuum, but it's something I love to do
every day,
>> clearly.
>> Um, and the other phenomena that I
discovered, which I thought would be
child's play for sure,
>> would be the fact that if you take a vat
of particles of all the same size and
tilt them,
>> they would roll over top of each other.
And the ones that do the rolling are
positive and the ones left behind are
negative.
This is very intriguing because for
particle charging dynamics, we know that
in volcanoes and wind um cloud
formation, the larger particles will
become positive and the smaller ones
will become negative. So there's a size
difference. We don't exactly know why it
occurs. But I was the first to show it
has nothing to do with size. It has to
do with dynamics. So the part the
particles that partake in the
interactions more often
will become positive than the ones that
do not. So if you have a cloud mixture
of bigger particles, giant spheres with
small particles, the bigger ones are
getting bombarded a lot.
>> So you'll have the ability to sample
more than the smaller ones. The bigger
ones will be positive and the smaller
ones will be negative. There's some
basic band theory reasons why that might
happen, surface state theory, but no
one's ever showed that. What are the
practical implications of both of those
kind of more conventional contributions
to electrostatics?
>> Probably um maybe electrostatic
beneficiation. That's where you separate
materials. We do that a lot of times
when we separate plastics. When you
recycle them, you can chop them up and
you can tell the high density from the
low density polyethylene by tribbo
charging them together and to find
particles splitting them in a field. One
goes one way, one goes the other. So you
can separate plastics that way. There's
a lot of different uses of tribbo
charged electrostatically
charged materials um for industry.
That's one case. Obviously explains
lightning, cloud, ground lightning,
volcanoes and things of that nature. So
there's a lot of interest in in our
community on the tribal electrification
of materials especially for the moon
Mars programs. Um, how does because
you're honestly you're probably living,
you know, the dream of, you know, many
nerdy kids in their in their bedrooms
right now, you know, thinking about NASA
and uh, you know, working in, you know,
sort of uh, cool physics and and and
electrostatics doing stuff for them. H
what's the how what's your journey
there? How did how did you get hooked up
with NASA, you know? Uh, yeah, that's a
long one.
Well, essentially I've always had a
fascination
um with space as a kid. I've always have
u and that didn't end when I went to
graduate school and after I graduated.
So, you know, my PhD is in theoretical
condensed matter physics. I got that at
Florida State University while working
at the National High Field Lab. And um
after that, you know, the grad students,
we went different directions. Some
stayed in academia, somewhat went, you
know, got jobs, you know, in in industry
or whatnot. And I decided to go to NASA
and there was an opening for a posttock
and the electrostatics lab under Dr.
Carlos Kay. He's trying to start that
laboratory back in Florida. I was living
in Tennessee at the time. I said, "Oh,
it's a chance to get into NASA, see what
it's about. You know what? What was
there to learn on electrostatics?
Everything's known. It's Maxwell's
equations. There can't be anything to
learn there." And when I got there, I
realized that even the most fundamental
uh studies in electrostatics were not
complete.
>> Even understanding how you rub two
materials together and you separate
them, one's plus, one's minus, how does
that even happen?
>> They didn't even know if it was the
electrons responsible, ions, material
transfer, all the above, none of the
above. So there was a lot to learn. So I
found it to be a very interesting field
of physics that that the mainstream
community doesn't care too much about.
So I I found it as a nice way to to
learn and to learn something new. Um and
that's that's what got me excited about
electrostatics once I got there. And uh
what really got me excited is it could
help people like it solve problems.
>> That's what electrostatics does. It
solves problems.
>> And it's in involved in just about every
industry
>> whether it's um you know making the dust
masks for the uh those are made by 3M
those N95 masks fighting COVID. Those
are electric filters. So you actually
make those using electrostatics and they
actually work for eight or nine hours
because they can trap those nanometer
particles.
>> You don't know these things. You
microphones are all electrostatics
properties. That's an elect. So there's
so many different fields that
electrostatics
dives into. And it was very useful for
us to as NASA go to these electrostatics
conferences where you have um the
pharmacy industry there, the biologists
are there, chemists are there. It's a
very wide open discipline because they
all need help in electrostatics and
they're all advancing that field and so
I could use what I learned there to
apply to NASA. So whether it's the EDS
technology that came from that community
or um other technologies that we learned
from that community like the
electrostatic precipitation that's air
filtration there are so many so many uh
technologies that come out of that
field. It was originally discovered by,
you know, founded by the um the
scientists at Xerox
>> back in the 70s.
>> So it has a very rich deep history in in
America in that north uh New York area
with Cornell and or not Cornell Corning,
Kodak
>> and these companies that are, you know,
very prominent back in the 60s and 70s
formed together this electrostatic
society and they uh they share that
technology with people.
>> It's fascinating. Yeah. I always found
it interesting that Towns and Brown
along with his thruster work which you
know involved you know what he thought
would lead to interstellar travel. He
also I believe was responsible for the
patents that ended up you know Sharper
Image ended up buying them and it was
like an ion you know air filter or
something and so I found that really
fascinating. Um, at what point did you
get the idea that maybe there was
another force here that could take us to
the stars and that chemical combustion
and the rockets that you don't work
maybe directly on, but you work, you
know, around with your work at Kennedy
Space Center might not be, you know, the
frontier of space travel. I always knew
there was something else, something more
than just Newton's laws. So I kind of
tailored my career uh just to try and
understand physics enough to see if this
to see if something else could be done
just anything. So this goes way back
into high school. So I started doing
tests in high school. I started doing
tests in college. I built rigs in
graduate school. So it never really
ended. But so I continued to do it. But
it's hard to say when did it start. I've
always believed it. just a belief that
there had to be a better way to move an
object from point A to point B. There
just had to be. Uh Newton's laws is
great. Um relativity wasn't very useful
to me. Probably because I just didn't
know it. But but electricity and
magnetism seem to have
uh a nice appeal because, you know, it's
19th century. There had to be a 19th
century equivalent to it. Momentum
conservation had to be. M
>> so I spent I don't know two decades
looking at the conversion from um field
momentum to mechanical momentum
>> if you're familiar with that field so
essentially you know you can convert
momentum stored in the field into real
momentum they've done that in the 70s
with the angular momentum but the linear
analog to it was always hindered by a
third momentum called hidden momentum so
I went I went out on a limb and tried to
find systems that did not have hidden
momentum.
>> Fascinating. Well, we're going to dive
deep into that and your theories around
it, but
>> I think first just, you know, for the
the lay audience,
mass ejection is the current kind of
paradigm. And so it's yeah, it's
Newton's third law and it's just, you
know, you expel a ton of mass. You a lot
of these rockets like look at like, you
know, SpaceX's, you know, Starship, it's
mostly fuel uh in the rocket itself.
That's that's most of the um the tonnage
is just fuel. And then you obviously
have a, you know, a decently high
payload capacity on top of that, but
that's a very small percentage of the
overall rocket. And so it's very
inefficient from that standpoint. And
then because you have a limited amount
of fuel, you can't really get to like
Proxima Centauri B. And if you could, it
would take you 80,000 years with current
current speeds. And that's like the
closest habitable planet. So, I always,
you know, bring these things up because
even if Elon Musk were sitting in your
chair, there's no argument he would have
to defeat that's just physics, you know,
like there's there's nothing he could
say to that. And so, I think what you're
looking into is like the most, you know,
people can come back with first
principles arguments and say you're
wrong, but like it's the most important
thing
>> for space. It absolutely is. There's no
question cuz like you said 90 I think
it's 95% of the of a rocket's mass is
just fuel.
>> Yes.
>> And it's you expel it almost immediately
and then you're done with it. So then
you're just out using inertia to get you
wherever you need to go unless you have
a little bit of fuel to get back. But
you know just the amount of fuel it's
going to take to get to Mars, how many
starships it's going to take that have
to be fueled just to get to Mars. It's
just astounding. Just an incredible
amount of mass of fuel.
>> Yeah. I mean, just to the moon. Do you I
don't know if you know this, but the
Starship burns 9/10 of its fuel tank. It
goes into low Earth orbit. Then it does
buttto butt refueling with another
Starship that goes up, burns 9/10 of its
fuel tank, and then that gets disposed
of. So you end up with 2/10. You have to
do that eight more times. Then you have,
you know, a full tank, and then that
goes to the moon. And that's just the
moon. That's not even Mars.
>> Oh, it's it's astounding the numbers
I've seen. It's astounding.
>> It's doesn't seem rational.
>> It doesn't. And you never bet against
Elon. He all, you know, any engineering
feat. You know, people were saying
Starship itself wouldn't work. And the
the Pez dispenser flap that allowed the
Starlinks to come out was like, you
know, that was would get ripped off and
that there all these things they had and
it seems like it's starting to work. You
know, it has orbited Earth. Um, and then
there's still, you know, uh,
modifications and updates they need to
make. So, you know, not pouring cold
cold water on that engineering effort,
but again, I do think from a physics
perspective, from a pure design
perspective, if there is this other
force, we should obviously be looking
into it.
>> Sure. I mean, there's got to be a better
way. And I always believed ever since I
started studying science that there has
to be another way. So, even even as a
young kid,
>> Totally.
>> just it doesn't make sense.
>> Yeah, I agree. It
>> just doesn't make sense. So it's like so
I kind of just tailored my my career
just just understanding science what we
knew about it everything that I could.
>> So clearly you had this kind of
imagination and uh just preconceived
idea that maybe we could transcend the
limits of chemical combustion. Maybe
there was something sitting in
electromagnetism this 19th century
modality. describe and hopefully in
detail kind of in visceral detail the
first time you witnessed this force and
what it felt like.
I would say the first time I witnessed
it or a force
um based on a theory that I had um was
probably 2010. It's wild. So that was
2010 with my um brother-in-law, future
brother-in-law. We he we weren't married
then, but uh he was in the laboratory
working with me and I set up an
experiment and I had him run it.
Now, the other scientist I was working
on on another project, you know, thought
I was just full of BS, which is perfect,
fine. So, he did not help us at all. You
know, he's a seasoned physicist, you
know, very well known in in in his field
and um just thought I was just doing
garbage and that's fine. I don't care.
So, I still had, you know, my
brother-in-law Nathan do the experiment
in the in the laboratory. And we were
looking at a laser on a on a wall. So,
you can see small displacements force in
a in a chamber. It wasn't an air
chamber. It wasn't a vacuum chamber. And
he did the test and we saw the we saw
the laser move. Like, that's pretty
cool. It's supposed to do that, I
thought. And uh my colleague, Dr.
Clemens Sid stopped what he was doing,
went over to Nathan. Okay, you've done
this, you've done this. Okay, now we
gota do he just completely immersed in
that experiment after that.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> It was like what is happening here? This
is really crazy. Something is weird. So
that was the first time that was very
very exciting for me cuz it was it's the
first time we all seen it and I happened
to be a world-class scientist there to
to help us, you know, it was actually
like wow what happened here.
>> So you kind of you converted him almost
at least into thinking it was worthy of
inquiry.
>> Didn't need to say anything else after
that.
That's amazing. Is he now a believer in
>> Oh, I I think so. He's seen it a few
times.
>> And what's his background?
>> Um, he is an electrostatics expert.
>> Okay.
>> He is my mentor.
>> And what's his name?
>> Dr. Sid Clemens.
>> Dr. Sid Clemens. Okay. So,
>> yeah, he is my mentor. So, that's where
I learned electrostatics.
>> That's wild. But he saw your experiment
and he was like, "Oh my god, there's
something else here.
>> There's something there. There's
something there." It's exciting. It was
an exciting moment.
>> That's incredibly exciting. Um, and so
you see this and what do you think is
the next step at that point? Cuz you
know, you see this little displacement,
this laser displacement based on this
possible force.
>> Do you design a new experiment right
after that?
We designed many experiments after that.
Um, it led us down many different paths.
>> And you know, that's kind of how this
goes. If you don't know exactly what's
happening, it can lead you down
different paths. Some were successful,
some were moderately successful, some
weren't. Really didn't hit too much
success
uh after that until I met Andrew.
Okay, here's the story with that if
you're interested. Very. So, we had a
colleague,
Andrew and I, a friend named Mike.
He knew about us working on this
independently for years and never told
us, never did. He wanted to see if we
can do it independently.
you know, like a race against I don't
know who. But
>> so he was playing dumb.
>> He was playing dumb.
>> He knew about this force and he was just
like, "Let's see how far they get."
>> He He knew Andrew was working on it. He
knew I was working on it. He just wanted
to see who was who would win the race.
>> Oh Jesus. That's like this like
Machavelian level.
>> It's like 4D chess going on
>> you know. And Mike his his excitement
was that you know how we were not we
were both working at NASA or as
contractors or or been at NASA and he
was just super excited that we were not
doing this at NASA. It's like well this
has a chance because once you get into
NASA and get in bureaucracy and get in
government there's a lot of a lot of
ways that can be hindered.
So he was loving that we decided to do
that outside of of work. Of course at
the time I wasn't working at NASA. was a
I was a consultant for Exxon Mobile.
But um
so we worked together cuz Andrew needed
an electrostatics guy. Andrew was knew
he was getting into the realm of
electrostatics.
>> So
>> what was Andrew's background?
>> Andrew.
>> Yeah.
>> Andrew Arjima. He is an engineer.
>> Okay.
>> He he's been an engineer for gosh 35
years or so.
>> And he goes by Drew.
>> Drew.
>> And he So he wasn't getting into this
via electrostatics. If if that's the
case, what what exactly was he doing?
>> Well, he he was using the term
electrovitics.
>> Oh, interesting. So, this is the Thomas
Townsen Brown.
>> So, he's in that he's in that it was in
that camp.
>> I love it. I'm in that camp.
>> I'm not exactly there, but
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I might move there. We'll see. I don't
know. I'm still on the fence on the
gravitics part.
>> We'll we'll we'll we'll meet in the
middle. We'll figure it out.
>> Yeah. To me, it was a little bit
pretentious. It's like, okay, you're
doing gravity and with electromagnetism,
maybe.
>> So, you meet Drew and then what happens?
>> So, at the time I was working with the
the field momentum, converting it into
linear momentum stuff. I wasn't in the
gravity world. I was in the field
momentum world.
So, we go to Drew's house. I take my
wife and we spent, you know, four or
five hours looking at his setup, looking
what he's doing. Um
and um and I gave him a lot of pointers.
He could try this, try that, try this.
You know, all the things I would do in
electrostatics to help him along. His
experiment looked very different than
mine.
His was just a needle, high voltage
needle and a and a teflon casing.
Um
I said, you know, that's pretty
interesting. Um
if he's getting forces with that, that's
kind of interesting. I don't know how
you would until my wife told me as we're
leaving the driveway. My wife was like,
"Isn't that the same force you're
working on? Just manifest it
differently."
>> She's a physicist, too. She's the best.
>> Wow.
>> So, she like we go back and forth on
these things.
>> Is she at NASA as well?
>> She is.
>> Wow. What does she do there?
>> She's in the launch services program.
>> Cool.
>> So, she doesn't have her PhD in physics,
but um she's taken engineering physics
in undergrad and she's really good at
math. So if I need help with math, I
just give, hey, Janessa, help me with
this equation. Help me with this
integral. She'll have like a baby on her
arm. Okay, fine. You can't get I'll do
it for you.
>> That's awesome.
>> She'll come in and look at the
whiteboard. She's like, "This is not
right."
>> So, she's very smart. It's fun to bounce
stuff off her.
>> Um but uh no, she she was clear. She's
like, "No, you you should look at this
your force that you're trying to do with
his setup. See if you're working on the
same thing, just a different
>> twist." Mhm.
>> I said, "Well, that can't be right." So,
I went back to my lab and I made a
needle, but I did it differently using
what I thought would work. And I would,
you know, I put a there's videos of this
on our website. You put a a tube over
the end of the needle and you put scotch
tape on the tube. So, there's no way on
wind getting out and you shove the
needle in that tube. You encase the darn
tube. Then I cranked up my power supply
and that thing moved 3 4 feet in the
air. And I sent a video to Drew. says
and Drew's like, "Oh, I guess we're
working together now."
>> Wow. Um, so you have achieved how much
force roughly now with your current
experiments?
>> Additive somewhere to 5 to 10 million
range.
>> Okay. And so for people listening, if
you were to apply that to like a
satellite in space in a microgravity or
zeroravity environment, that would be
huge.
>> Sure.
>> You would be able to do
>> Yeah. initial markets. That's what we're
comfortable with. We're a space company.
We all work at the space agency at
different levels, not just NASA, but you
know, the peripherals. And this is where
we're comfortable with. There's
definitely uh when we say um when do we
hit unity? Well, we've hitten unity for
space, unity for moon, Mars, all of
these places. So, we can make flying
cars and the moon and Mars and all of
that. Um
>> so, it's a very exciting place to be
right now. Y
>> without any significantly huge
development,
>> it could theoretically lead to deep
space exploration. You could um help
maintain orbits for satellites where
there's orbital decay.
>> That's what that's what our hope is.
Sure.
>> Okay. And you can move these satellites
maybe um to other orbits as well. Like
there's a there's a company called
Impulse Space there. They're like, you
know, they do like kickstages where you
would move, you know, between orbits
where maybe you'd go up on SpaceX ride
share with another group of satellites,
but you'd want to move into a dedicated
orbit. You could use a thruster like
this to do something like that. No
doubt. That's what our goal is.
>> Super cool. And then what about like
replacing rockets? Could we ever do that
with this?
>> Well, if we get Earth unity, we won't
need rockets, right?
>> That's true. have to think about things
a little differently.
>> Um,
>> but could could the 10 millons of thrust
turn into Newtons of thrust and could we
end up launching things into space with
this, you know, Exodus method or this
other this
>> that is our our main goal to try to do
that, you know, that's where we the self
launcher we is what we call it.
>> Do you have blueprints around this self
launcher? Do you have a sense of the
energy requirements or anything like
that or
>> we we don't.
>> Okay.
>> But we're on the path. So, we know what
we need to do. We just have to go set
out and do it.
>> Have you gone up in over the 2,000
iterations? Have you gone up in millions
of thrust? Like,
>> okay.
>> So, you have a sense of the levers to
get more thrust.
>> There are levers and there are several.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And we're trying to optimize those.
>> And what are the primary levers? There's
like we've talked about voltage the
materials properties breakdown strength
of materials um the type of signals we
send
the physical limits on the materials
>> there's so many
>> what are the ideal materials for this
sort of experiment
>> well we're dealing with high voltage so
we need materials with high dialectric
breakdown strength but we also have
permitivity issues we have to contend
with uh geometry issues we have to
contend with static dissipation issues
we to contend with. There are a lot of
other issues and that's just the DC.
When you get to, you know, other
frequencies or you get to other exotic
types, you know, charge injection,
electrits, things can get even wackier.
>> Yeah.
>> So, um, we are looking at some of the
interesting materials now that have
other properties which going to keep to
ourselves for now, but something it's
very, very interesting for now. It's
just to see if it goes anywhere. It
could lead to nowhere. Yeah.
>> But, um, we're just looking at it.
>> Cool. You know, there's other things out
there.
>> In the Towns and Brown context, barerium
titanate and bismouth often come up. Are
either of those relevant to your
experience as well?
>> We have some some uh experiments with
barryium titanate a couple years ago.
It's a good high uh permitivity powder.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
I don't know what the results of those
were. There weren't uh
>> particularly interesting. What was the
other one you said?
>> Uh bismouth.
>> Oh, bismouth.
Yeah, I've seen bismouth a lot. Bismouth
looks like fun.
>> I would love to test with some Bismouth.
Um there's some cool things that they
found the arts parts materials.
>> Y
>> um which is kind of neat because they
had some weird geometries in there which
I would project that we would have
needed.
>> Mhm.
>> But to see that in real life already
made, oh that's kind of cool.
>> Can't wait to go test those exotics. But
that's down the road for us.
>> Y
>> we're going to try to stay focused and
do what we're good at right now and then
work on the more exotic stuff later, I
think. And so in doing these
experiments, uh, did you have access to
a vacuum chamber? Because I I feel like
it's been a lot of the the reason, you
know, everybody always questions me on
this. They're like, "This experiment
sounds very simple." Because I always
bring up the Towns and Brown experiment.
They're like, "Why has nobody done it
yet?" And I say, I give two reasons. I
say, people always try to explain it
away via the ion wind. And it's so
similar to the ion wind related
experiments that it's easy to do that.
It's always easy to say there's ambient
ionization in the vacuum. That's number
one. And then number two, access to an
industrialgrade vacuum chamber is pretty
limited and it's obviously very
expensive. And so did you have access uh
you know based on your kind of NASA
background?
Yes. You know Drew and I have access to
a chamber. He's got one at his house.
He's very resourceful. Amazing.
>> He funded it himself. It's a nice size
vacuum chamber. He also has a second one
that he's going to get online soon,
which is almost a walk-in size vacuum
chamber. So, very pricey, but hopefully
with some funding, we can get that thing
um up to par and running. Um, but yes,
we do have access to a high vacuum
chamber. That's where we do most of our
tests. And let me let's describe to the
audience why it's important that ion
wind can't get out because this is how
you know I learned about all this stuff
through Thomas Towns and Brown and he
used to do these experiments. So Thomas
Towns and Browns this super interesting
mysterious guy who pops up at extremely
high levels of aerospace. He was at the
Navy for a very long time. He was at
Martin Corporation the year that
Skunkworks was formed in 1942 or three.
Um there's a an FBI document um that is
circulated now and out about him uh and
says that he's the lead radar scientist
in the entire Navy. He knows more about
radar than anybody in the Navy. We have
a lot of evidence that his
electro-hydrodnamics work, you know,
this electric fields to manipulate
airflow work ended up in the B2 stealth
bomber. So you have like two out of
three things that he's talking about
definitely being legit. And then the
third thing he's saying is I've merged
electromagnetism and gravity and he
talks about electrogravidics and it's
specifically two experiments 1956 in
Paris of which we have a witness who
there's a an audio recording of a
deathbed confession in 2009. This guy
Jacqu Cornon who's a technical
consultant for Sud west which is uh you
know an aerospace corporation there. And
you know they say there is a a force
that is not only measurable in a vacuum
at 10 the -6 to but um the force exceeds
what you would ever see outside of a
vacuum. And then he does the same
experiment at the Bonson labs at the
Institute of Field Physics in North
Carolina. And it's this remarkable thing
where you have this guy two out of the
three things he's saying probably right.
you have, you know, he's dealing with
Curtis Lame and the Rand Corporation,
all these super high up people,
>> and then this Electrogravitics thing
just gets stigmatized and people just
kind of forget about it. And it almost
feels like he's trying to he has this
wounded prairie chicken routine where
he's trying to stigmatize his own work.
And so it's it's fascinating. And the
reason so this is very long-winded, but
you mentioned ion wind. The way people
write off any of these experiments,
including Thomas Towns and Browns, is
they say that uh these capacitor
experiments, especially if they take
place not in a vacuum, you end up with
ionized air. The ionized air then
bounces off of uh other air particles
and it's basically just Newton's law
taking place and then you get thrust.
And so that's very different than
showing this in a vacuum chamber or in
this case you mitigated ion ions in in
another way. Is that right?
>> Well, you kind of have to. Yeah.
Otherwise, you'll see the ion wind
thrust. So you can either cap it,
enclose it in a volume, whatever you
have to do,
>> but you don't want the ion wind to be
playing a role here.
>> Yep.
And uh one of the things that's
different about the force that we're
talking about in the iron wind force is
in terms of geometry is that the devices
will move with the wind.
>> So imagine a rocket moving in the
direction that the exhaust is.
>> That's crazy.
>> So you have to remove the eye and wind
because of the stigma from it because a
lot of scientists have tried to do these
things and they've seen the eye and wind
and
>> it's not a real force in the sense it's
not a uh propellantless force. There's
propellant there. The wind. Yep.
>> Um but the other thing is not that's a
different thing.
>> Yeah.
>> That's a completely different beast.
>> And you would be an authority in your
ability to delineate between
>> Sure. I do I do videos where I take
those um the lifters and I put them in a
in a in a plastic box and I put on a
scale.
>> Yeah.
>> And you watch the weight and you turn it
on, the thing lifts up and the weight
flat lines. Does not move at all.
>> Wow.
>> So Drew was like, "Man, I've never seen
that video before." That's conservation
momentum right there. That's what ion
wind is doing.
>> Yeah. So that's exactly like the all the
you have all these DIY videos of these
balsa wood lifters with tin foil and you
have the ions moving around the copper
coil or whatever and then you end up
with thrust. But that is not this
electrogravidic force or what you are
calling you know this this uh exodus
force or you know electrostatic
variation force whatever it is that is
different that is another force. Um so
it's important for you know any
experimental physicists who want to pour
cold water on this. And the funny thing
is Brown himself would use the
electrohydrodnamic stuff the the stuff
involving ion wind to cover for the
electrogravitics he would literally like
because it's 95% similar
>> but it's not the same thing. And again
you are in a kind of an authoritative
position in order to you know you have
the ability to delineate between those
two things. Yeah, that's important. I
>> It is really important. Yeah. Um and
it's Yeah, it's important because it's
the always the first order debunk on
this entire thing.
>> So, you do this experiment that
eliminates or controls for ion wind. I'm
assuming you since then have done a
series of experiments to control for all
sorts of other possible confounding
variables.
Yes. So, after Drew and I did these
experiments in 2016, uh I think we spent
about two years trying to package it.
Now, there's one thing to put 100,000
volts on a device and have it move
around in the room. Drew and I both knew
that was completely impractical. You
can't do anything with that cuz you have
to make something to attach it to a
vehicle, to a rocket, to something that
people have to be around.
And this this better damn well go inside
of grounded box. So, we made a lot of
effort. It took a lot of effort those
two years to get the sucker packaged up
in in a way so it can actually be
transportable and confined.
Um so that was the initial pull to to go
into to get into a system where we can
actually enclose everything. Coolant
forces are the biggest killer in vacuum
or in air. So you can you know you can
apply high voltage to something it'll
attract to the wall floors ceilings far
away. It can still do that. So you have
to make sure that everything you do is
inside a a very well-grounded Faraday
cage. So that is another one of our
our tests, checks and balances. You
know, do we have it inside of a Faraday
cage? Is it all completely housed? Is it
feels trapped within the system? Do we
spin it the other way? There's a lot of
checks and balances we have to do along
the along the along the way. So Faraday
cage would eliminate magnetic field
interference.
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> Only electric field. only electric field
interference and then you also need
vacuum chamber because is that right or
no? You don't need it. It's a lot
easier. Okay.
>> Because you get rid of the air. The gas
breaks down like like a million volts
per meter fields. So the gases start
breaking down and when they break down
they create their own charges and when
they create their own charges you can
put charges where you don't want it. You
can short. You can uh have charges
leaking around the side. It it really
messes with you. So to do things in air
is a bit more complicated than vacuum.
Vacuum you don't have to worry about
that. Moisture is the biggest killer
especially in Florida. So you want to do
stuff in in a very dry environment or
high vacuum if you can.
>> So you're saying that in a vacuum
chamber you get more thrust.
>> You could make a system work better.
Yes.
>> Interesting. Well that's Townsen Brown
also said you'd get more thrust.
>> You get more thrust because the field
limit is not 10 to the 6th anymore. It's
10 to the eth.
>> Right. So that's because it goes the
forces are related to pressure. They go
up by field squared.
>> So instead of 10 6^ squar is 10 12th 10
the 8th squar is 10 to the 16. So now
you have a much you have four orders of
magnitude potential higher thrust just
on the
>> on the exterior part of your of your uh
thrusters.
>> Yeah.
>> So there's more to draw from from the
field.
>> That's right. This is a field effect.
It's not a voltage effect.
>> It's fascinating. Yeah. It's so
interesting and it's it but it really
flies in the face of the debunkers
saying that it's attributable to ion
wind because in an environment where
there is less ion wind you are getting
more thrust and it might be due to this
field effect but still you're
controlling for the ion wind which is
what they're saying is accounting for
the thrust.
>> Yes. And you have to also when you're in
a vacuum chamber now you have a new
falsity which could be the walls of the
vacuum chamber giant metal ground. So
you want to make sure that you put your
test device, whatever it is, inside of a
Faraday cage and then you measure the
force on the Faraday cage, nothing else,
not what's inside of it. The whole box
has to move. So you got to measure that.
>> That makes sure that what you're seeing
is real. Then you got to take turn that
suck around so that you're not being
attracted to the wall through the fair
gauge. So you want to make sure you're
always going in the correct direction.
>> So describe the current kind of
state-of-the-art experimental setup on
this.
>> So that's basically what I was saying.
So we'll put it in a box. So, it'll be a
Faraday cage. A lot of ways to make
Faraday cages. Uh, ground it really,
really well.
>> Um, if you do have voltage come in from
outside or if you put the voltage
inside, you have to make sure it's
shielded really, really well. You don't
want any coolum attraction to the walls
or the housing or anything like that.
We've gotten good where we've lowered
our voltage way way down. We don't need
30 40,000 volts like we did 10 years
ago. Um, and try to keep it all
contained and then reverse it. Make sure
it works. Put it in air. See if it
works. Put it on the mass. put on the
scale, see if it works. Do the pendulum,
do the rotator, do the spinner, do
everything to make sure it's real
because we hate
>> falsities. They're they're we hate them.
We don't want them.
>> Okay. So, what we have here is a
thruster that is set on top of a scale
in room air.
>> Okay. So, what Buer is basically saying
here is that he's testing a small
experimental in-air thruster to show
that it actually works. His team puts
the thruster on a sensitive scale. Next,
they connect it to electricity, about
480 volts to be exact.
>> If you look to the bottom right of the
screen, you'll see the voltage that is
applied. You can also see the current in
the center, the electric field, and the
run time. So, this is a 42-minute video
that we sped up to 5 minutes.
>> They watch to see if the scale reading
changes as a result of the thrust.
>> We turn on the voltage here. It's about
- 480 volts.
>> When they turn the power on, the
thruster produces a tiny force. Within a
few seconds, the force starts to be
applied to the thruster, which is on top
of the scale, and it goes in the
negative direction. It's lifting up.
>> They're specifically demonstrating that
the force is real and controllable,
enough to lift about.1 g.
>> We see about 0.1 g. That corresponds to
about 1 mill of thrust.
>> When they turn the power off, the force
goes away.
>> Okay? So, we leave it on for a few
seconds and then we turn it back off.
And then you can see that it'll come
back down.
>> They repeat this to show it's not a
fluke. So what we'll do is we'll do this
again. We'll turn it back on. Get it
back up to the mill range. Let it sit
for a few seconds. So what we're showing
is that you can actually turn this force
on and off.
>> They then flip the thruster upside down
and run the test again.
>> So you'll see that here in a moment. And
the reason why we have it off the scale
itself, we do not want any attraction of
the thruster to the scale itself.
Although the fields are very very weak
and in most cases there is a Faraday
shield, we also want to make it so it's
very very far away.
>> Finally, they take full precautions to
make sure nothing else is affecting the
measurement. So, we flip the thruster,
we deionize it. Basically, we ionize the
gases. We neutralize any charge that
escapes. And then we retar the scale.
It's typical. That's what's needed for
scale testing. This thruster itself is
surrounded by ground plates. So, we try
to minimize the field that escapes. But
just in case, we neutralize it anyway.
And then we turn the voltage back on. In
this case, about 480 volts or so. Wait a
few seconds. The thrust kicks on. And
then we see the force is in the positive
direction. So, now it's being pulled
down.
>> Now, the force pushes down instead of
up. This proves that the thruster itself
is creating the force, not some outside
interference or attraction to the scale
like electrical interference or the
thruster just sticking to the scale. I
would say this video proves the force
fairly definitively to any skeptic, but
you could technically say that this
experiment requires a vacuum chamber
because open air can get ionized. Again,
ionized wind can result in thrust based
on Newton's classical laws. But 480
volts isn't nearly enough to ionize the
air. So it's kind of a moot point, but
just for good measure, here is another
variation of the experiment, also
showing thrust, this time in a vacuum
chamber.
>> What we have here is a vacuum test
highlighting actual movement in vacuum
using a dual thruster pack in the
vertical spinner orientation. And how we
measure the forces here is we have pegs
at the bottom of this stand that are
about 2 mm apart. And the deflection
once the thruster is turned on moves it
about 14 mm which corresponds to roughly
about 2.5 mtons of thrust when we turn
this device on. These devices are
actuated externally to the vacuum
chamber through a Bluetooth connection.
So they're not in contact with anything.
But the ITO walls that surround the
thruster pack shown by that clear
transparent plastic is perfectly
grounded. So that eliminates Koolom
attraction to the wall. We're also in
high vacuum so there's no ion wind
interference. Just to highlight that
these thrusters are actually developing
thrust internally not an external
effect. So power systems inside the
chamber all the high voltage is encased
uh surrounded with an indium tin oxide
sheathing and the thruster does come on
as expected and go off as expected for
these earlier versions. So that is a
nice way to show that there is actual
physical movement in high vacuum. We're
not just recording force measurements
without actually corresponding that to
real force. So, these are just two out
of the 2,000 experimental variations
from Charles Drew and the Exodus team.
If you're an experimental physicist with
a credible background, maybe you have a
PhD or you're a professor at a top 200
physics department and you're a bit
bored and interested in exotic
propulsion and you want to see one of
these experiments with me live in person
to help vet it and maybe change the
world in the process. Hit me up at
usa.alchemy@gmail.com.
alchemy@gmail.com.
Skeptics are extremely welcome. I want
people who are in good faith trying to
poke holes in the experimental setup
here.
If I were to pluck a random experimental
physicist from an elite college and
place him in front of this experiment,
the exact experiment you just described,
is there anything they could say to deny
the empirical effect that you're seeing?
I honestly don't know. I mean, as far as
we can tell in the electrostatics
community and and with my colleagues, um
because it's DC, that eliminates all the
magnetic effects.
>> So, you can get all kinds of weird stuff
happening when you have magnetics going
on, Earth's magnetic field or whatnot.
>> And DC is direct current. If you had,
are you saying if you had alternating
current, you'd have weird magnetic field
effects.
>> So, you'd have to account for any uh
fake readings with that. Yes. If you
have AC, sure.
>> Interesting.
>> AC eliminates a lot of that.
>> Yeah.
>> And then when you turn it off and it's
still there, that eliminates a lot of
that,
>> right? So now you really are scratching
your head like what is happening here?
And that's where we're at. Like what is
happening here?
>> Is there anything that they can hang
their hat on as far as being skeptical
about this actually happening or being
able to explain it away through prosaic
physics forces that are known? I mean, I
think if you look at every single
experiment, you can say, "Well, this
might be fake because of this."
>> I say, "Okay, we'll put it over here."
Oh, well, now it's maybe fake because of
this. Okay, we'll put it over here. So,
show me a rock. What about this? Okay,
now do this. Do that. So,
>> is there anything left is what I'm
trying to ask you. Like, if you had to
stress test your own
>> If there is, it's something quite exotic
that I have no idea what it what it
would be.
>> It's I I I don't know what else it would
be.
>> It's shown itself over and over again.
How many variations of this experiment
do you think you've tried sequentially
from 2010 till today?
>> We Well, since Drew and I, we've been
keeping track. We are close to 2,000
>> Oh my god. 2,000 instances of the
experiment or 2,000 variations.
>> 2,000 variations.
>> Holy
>> 2,000 test articles. Each one is tested
multiple times.
>> Wow.
>> Folders of folders. Has anybody come in
thoroughly examined your experiment and
come out skeptical? Or has everybody
that's thoroughly examined it come out
saying there's something here?
>> I would say the latter for sure. There's
something there.
>> You cannot think of one person who is
still like I spent, you know, a day plus
with the team and I still, you know,
think I can explain it with some other,
you know, force. I haven't I can't
really think of anyone.
>> Granted, there's not that been that many
people have seen it. You know, couple of
dozen or so, but
>> um but I don't think so. You know,
what's really cool though is some people
have called me up and say uh you know, I
represent an investor. I you know, I
would I would like to the investor would
like to you know, invest into your
company or whatever. I said, "Okay,
well, what you have to do is you have to
fly down. You have to see it. You put
your hands on it." Usually that's the
kind of the routine. He's, "Oh, I don't
need to do that." What do you mean? I
already built one in my garage.
I got a 1 mill. You showed us how to do
it, so I just did it.
>> Wow.
>> So, it's been the opposite. People have
been very taken into this and they're
very excited about it.
>> That's amazing.
>> So, the people with the know can do it.
And the people that have seen it, um, I
just don't know if they know what
they're seeing, but they definitely like
it. And they're probably not good enough
to vet it, I would say, because take
vetting it would take um a lot more a
lot more work. And I think it would take
a lot more expertise. We haven't had too
many, you know, other than, you know,
Dr. Clemens and there's other physicists
that have seen it that have said
anything negative about it. Um we
haven't seen any that have said it
negative, but we haven't seen it hasn't
been exposed to the entire scientific
community either. Um I think in this
field it's hard to find who are those
people like who would be interested in
it.
>> My hope is um the one thing I did want
to mention is
>> I think everybody should be interested
in it.
>> Well I think so.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> you know my
when we are hosting the electrostatic
society of America conference this year
my lab is um that's in Cocoa Beach
Florida and I will do a live demo of
this.
>> When is this
>> there in June? Can I come and film?
>> You can.
>> Oh, that'd be amazing. Let's go. I'm so
excited.
>> The Electrostatic Society of America is
just a the happy It's called the
Friendly Society.
>> Cool. You know, and um and this is an
electrostatic phenomena. So, you I'm
going to highlight how electrostatics is
so necessary for space
>> and propulsion is one of the things I
think it could help
>> for sure.
>> So, I'm going to mention that.
>> Why don't you submit this to peer review
and try to get it kind of academically
checked off?
>> I'm trying. Okay. It's just a very busy
person.
>> Yeah. Yeah, you're busy, but I want to
see this dstigmatized.
>> I know. I do, too. But, you know, you
know, there's the path. Um, right now
we're focused on getting the company
started so we get some funding to to
really get the forces up. That's that's
our main focus.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, the peer review and all of that.
It's going to take 20 years. So, I'm
starting that.
>> I don't know if it'll take 20 years.
>> Maybe 30.
>> What?
>> It just will. It just will. It's too
different. It's it's
>> oh because of the antibodies that
>> this is this field has been poisoned
multiple times for a century
>> you know I would say that and then I
think people are becoming more and more
open to these sorts of effects. Are you
familiar with Sunny White?
>> Sure. So, you know, he's
>> I haven't met him, but
>> he's another NASA guy, NASA Eagle Works,
and he is kind of similar to you where,
you know, he's has this kind of pretty
credentialed, impressive background, and
he's claiming to
1.5 kilovolts, you know, um powering up
a little microchip based on the Casemir
effect. Yeah. And the Casemir effect is
this long legendary kind of anomalous
effect that if you were to walk into
elite physics, you know, departments. I
don't think you'd get too many people
denying the effect itself,
>> but it's essentially two not charged but
conductive plates. And it seems like
there's some sort of maybe quantum
vacuum fluctuation thing going on
between them and the the plates attract
in this sort of anomalous interesting
way. and he's claiming to be able to tap
into that which is I hate the word zero
point energy the term you know is so
quacky but it is that and so you have
that you have beatric voral I don't know
if you're familiar with her
>> and I don't know if you're into UFO
stuff I don't want to muddy the waters
too much but um she's at Stockholm
University and she's uh you know again
like traditional astrophysics
credentials really impressive you know
uh astronomer and uh She went back and
looked at these plates from the Palomar
Observatory, which is, you know, the was
the most inuse observatory in the late
40s and early 50s. And she looked at the
plates from 49 to 57, so pre-sputnik.
And she found all these transients,
these light reflecting objects that that
are flat and uh mirrorike and uh seem to
exist somewhere probably in
geostationary orbit. So kind of like
outer, you know, Earth orbit. And these
short flashes and not streaks, they're
associated with things that are
extremely flat and extremely reflective.
>> Wow.
>> Like mirrors. And that makes it more
fun.
>> Like mirrors. And they're exactly how
all the early CIA documents would
describe UFOs. And they show up 68% more
around nuclear detonations, which is we
know UFOs are kind of attracted to
nukes. out of those 2,700 days, if
there's no nuclear test, there's a
transient on 11% of those days. But if
there's been a a nuclear test the day
before, then it's uh almost 19% of those
days have a transient. So that 11 versus
19 is about a 68% increase in risk for a
transient if you've had a nuclear test.
>> And she got that passed through peer
review. So I don't know. I think the
world is opening up to this stuff and my
hope is that uh 30 years is is a way
overestimate and I hear you. I mean the
academia is totally close-minded and
dogmatic but I think maybe sometimes you
just have to walk through the front
door, you know, you just have to like
knock and they'll let you in.
>> Well, I'm going to I'm going to be the
front door. I'm going to I'm going to be
the house that lands.
>> I love that.
>> You know, peer review in a paper, the
physics people are going to debate for
for decades.
>> Sure. I like having the the website and
and Drew and and having videos how to
make the things. Go ahead and make them.
>> Yeah.
>> If you don't believe me, go ahead and
make them in the garage.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> This has been very helpful. People have
done this.
>> So, you'll do this like you have like
these DIY videos where it's like go do
this at home.
>> Yeah.
>> Whoa. And where are these videos?
>> They're on our website.
>> Oh, wow. And where where is that? Is
that exoduspace.com
or what? Or
>> exoduspulsion.space.
>> Exoduspropulsion.space.
Okay. Check that out. And you've shown
your experiments with all of the
configurations that would
>> not all of them.
>> Okay.
>> We have to keep some stuff quiet.
>> Okay, cool. So, are you doing like
lateral propeller experiments or are you
doing things that involve like lifting
objects?
>> We're not lifting objects yet in Earth
gravity. Okay.
>> We're measuring the forces of these
objects.
>> Yeah.
>> And seeing how much their force can lift
as compared to Earth gravity. Got it.
So, we do have thrusters that are
theoretically capable to lift themselves
up. The the problem is all of the
hardware that goes with it, the voltages
and the powers and the wires and the
framing and all that other stuff is not
there yet. So, you have to It's like
saying your car engine um can lift the
engine, can move the engine down the
street, but no tires and no frames and
it's not very useful.
>> Sure.
>> Um but for right now, for what we have
for lunar applications, space
applications, oh, it's awesome. It would
be fantastic.
>> That's amazing. So, in microgravity or
or no gravity environments, you'll get a
ton of thrust.
>> Sure.
>> That's amazing. Um, and you're seeing
weight reduction. Is that right?
>> Well, we were saying that. Yeah. The
weight reduction would be something
we're seeing, not mass reduction. Be
careful.
>> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I I know
that gets thrown around UFO world all
the time. Like, wait, are you you're
reducing the mass of the thing?
>> It's definitely not negative mass.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. But yes, you we
do those tests. We have videos. Um I can
share some with you.
>> Uh where we put stuff on a scale and we
turn it on, it gets lighter. You have
flip it over, it gets heavier. We are
going through a peer review.
>> Okay. Amazing.
>> For our second patent, the examiner's
office is doing a a thorough peer
review.
>> They're the ones uh
>> going down that path.
>> Okay, great.
>> Which is apparently equivalent to a
scientific peer review. So they're
that's what I've been told.
>> Amazing. So they're reaching out to
people that have done it, reaching out
to people have signed affidavits to say,
"Yes, I've seen it. Yes, I've reproduced
it." Blah blah blah blah. So they're
going through that process. Now,
>> what inspired you to pursue kind of more
exotic propulsion to begin with? Did you
have any childhood experiences around
this sort of stuff?
>> Yes. Yes, I did.
Um,
>> I've always had a fascination with with
UFOs. And I think it's been around a
long time, just, you know, strange
phenomena. But I think it really hit
home um I think I was 11 or 12 when we
worked our haunted house. My dad would
make haunted houses in our in our garage
in New York.
>> Really? What does that even mean? Make
haunted houses
>> built a haunted house for the um hotel
that he worked at,
>> Giant Holiday Inn, I think it was or
Hilton in uh Connecticut. And it was a
massive haunted house. And his job was
to build the whole darn thing. So he
liked that. So the next year we did it
at our house and we charged people like
50 cents to get in and go through the
haunted house and it was probably I
think it was a 9 by11
single car garage haunted house and uh
we made $1,100. That's how many people
showed up. It was crazy. It was a lot of
fun.
But you know we had haunted house and it
would go on for several weeks.
One night while I was there working it,
um, a whole bunch of cars came in the
driveway and, uh, I recognized one of
the kids getting out of the car. He
said, "Charlie, go look, look at that."
And he shows me, you know, we look up
and there's these six bright white
lights at the top of the trees just
hanging over the trees, just going over
the road, just uh, you know, not moving
very fast, just just hanging hanging out
in formation. No sound, no window,
nothing. And all these cars were
following this these lights for several
days. This happened over the course of
several days.
>> Was this like a famous UFO wave or flap
or something?
>> It was. It was in the papers and all
that jazz. Southeast New York in the mid
80s.
>> It was a lot of fun. You know, I was I
thought that was pretty cool. So, I kind
of like geared my career towards trying
to understand some of that stuff. I just
wanted to know what the heck that was.
And uh it got me interested in physics,
I think, in science in general. I was
always interested in science. Did they
look like orbs or were they were they
part of a formation or do you think they
were part of the same craft?
>> I think they were different craft. I
think they were just separate crafts.
Wow. I didn't see a solid object or
anything.
>> And so this was for days at a time. And
it
>> they would come every night. They'd come
back and they'd be in different parts of
the
>> of the city. I don't know what the heck
they were doing or why they were there,
but it was it was pretty pretty cool.
Pretty wild. It was about the same time
um
where somebody said they saw the men in
black which I thought was hysterical.
>> Wild cuz I was, you know, we were
trick-or-treating out with my friends
and we ran into another group of friends
and that group of friends said, "Hey,
these two weird guys showed up in these
1920s outfits and they said, you know,
if you see something weird, they said
just close your eyes and tell it to
land." Do you guys know what the heck
that means? I knew I knew what it was. I
said, "Where are these guys?" "They're
right over there." So, we went running
to go look for them, but I didn't find
anybody.
>> But you knew of the men.
>> I knew the phenomena. No one knew what
the men and black were from 1980s, early
' 80s. I don't think that was a a thing,
but I like to study that stuff. So, I
knew what I knew of who that was or what
that was.
>> That's fascinating.
>> So, I thought, "Oh, this is cool."
>> How How can we learn more about this UFO
flap? Does it have kind of a a name that
it's been kind of preserved by or is
there a way to search it? Or
>> you can just look at Brewster, New York.
>> Brewster, New York. Okay.
>> Probably 86 or 85, somewhere in that
range. Wild newspapers and television
almost weekly carried reports of the
sightings
from different places throughout the
area. Eyewitnesses all reported seeing
the same thing. I looked up and right
over my head virtually, it wasn't far
off. It was right over my head and very
still. Uh there was a rim of lights in
the shape of a triangle.
>> It was just a tremendous object. It was
anywhere from wing tip to wing tip about
four uh 50 or 60 yards.
>> These were very very unusual lights.
I've never seen anything like it in my
life. And so I pulled my car over and I
had to take a look.
>> But it it it was in the paper. I
remember that cuz it lasted several
days.
>> And you hinted to me that you had an
even more surreal experience.
>> That was not a surreal experience. That
was just me seeing some lights.
>> It's surreal for many people.
>> Yeah, just lights. It was lights. But
>> yeah, I had a more intense experience, I
would say,
many years later.
>> Um, my wife and I experienced this. And,
uh, this was it was pretty cool event
now that it's over. A little terrifying
at the time, but uh, we we live in Cocoa
Beach. So, we went out to the beach one
night. I would say 9:30, 10 o'clock at
night and um we're the only ones there.
It's not uncommon though back then. This
is maybe 10 years ago. And uh maybe 12
years ago.
So, we live close to the Patrick Air
Force Base.
>> Mhm.
>> Which is south of us. And uh so out in
the ocean, maybe about 3 miles outside,
south of us in the ocean. I would say
about 3 miles. We could kind of gauge
how far things are apart because we're
used to the all the rivers and they're
all three miles wide. So this is about 3
milesi out in the ocean. We see a red
light, just a beacon just bleeping.
No big deal. Just a boat.
Thousands of boats, but not that night.
There were not thousands of boats. And
uh it gets brighter and it gets
brighter. We're like, man, that's it's
getting kind of bright. What is that?
What? You know, beacons don't get that
bright. So, there's got to be a boat.
Maybe someone's in trouble. And then it
gets really bright. And then it
explodes.
So, we see this giant, I don't want to
say mushroom cloud, but it got very,
very bright.
So bright it lit up the whole beach as
far as the eye can see. Four, you know,
all the way from Cape Canaveral all the
way down. And I said, "My god, what the
heck happened there?" My wife and I were
like, "That's crazy. Clearly someone's
going to call the police and tell them
that a boat exploded. You know, we're on
the beach. We didn't have phones or
anything at the time. Like, what the
heck is that?
So, I would say 5 minutes later, wasn't
that long, 10 minutes, we see one of the
helicopters from the Air Force base go
out to it.
>> So, they get up and they they fly over
it and they hover right over it. It's
still blinking. It's not exploding. It's
still there. Still blinking. Just a nice
pace. Blink, blink, blink. helicopter
hangs over, looks at it, doesn't do
anything, goes all the way back.
So, like, well, are they going to help
the people? Are they going to, you know,
rescue them or are they going to do any
of that? Nothing. That is so weird.
That's when it got fun.
So, now as we're watching this thing,
this is about 10, 15, 20 minutes into
it, it gets closer. Still bring still
blinking. It's getting closer. It's
leaving. It's moving.
And then it gets within a mile. So is
that 3 miles to 2 miles to about a half
a mile and then somewhere at I think
about a half a mile. It's not one light
anymore. It's split into six.
And it's not just getting bright.
Um, these orange pinkish lights split
and then they started rotating
and they just started rotating like
bicycle spokes on a wheel and they kept
getting closer and they would go under
the water and come back out under the
water, come back out, under the water,
come back out like this is really weird.
And they got closer to us. So when it
got about a quarter mile or maybe a
thousand yards out, we're like, "Okay,
we're going to walk up the beach now.
This that's been fun. That's a little
bit too close." It kept following us. It
got closer. It got closer. It got
brighter. It got brighter.
And I think it was about when they got
about I wouldn't even be exaggerating if
I said 50 yards.
That close,
>> I started getting a little scared and
and I I know she was getting scared. Um
then after about 40 minutes of looking
at these lights and and trying to run
from them, but not full out sprint, but
kind of just walking super fast.
like 12 blocks.
>> It went out
and then um then we walked home
>> and it was ter it was terrifying, but it
was not super scary, but it was scary
enough cuz I didn't know what the heck
that was. That's wild. What year was
this? Probably 2013.
Okay. Somewhere in there. So, you had
already started your work on the more
exotic propulsion stuff.
>> Probably. Yeah. A couple years in by by
then for sure.
>> That's fascinating. It's so interesting.
So, you saw this thing out in the
distance and then it started to loop in
and out of the water and then and
approach you and it got to like 50
yardsish away.
>> Yeah, it got really close beyond the
waves like where the where the waves
started.
>> Did it still look like the same
amorphous light at 50 yards or could you
make out the structure?
>> There's no I couldn't see a structure.
just six or seven lights going in a
pattern. Faster, slower, faster, slower,
in and out of the water like the water
wasn't there and just it was responding
to us.
>> Really?
>> Why? So why? Cuz that's a common thing
for people to say who've had UFO
experiences.
>> It just if we went up, it went up. If we
went faster, it went faster.
>> It was mirroring it.
>> It was mirroring us. Did you get any
sort of consciousness download or feel
mentally locked in with it or anything
like that?
>> No.
>> No, I don't think so.
>> But these lights are kind of common over
there if you if you study these these
type of lights.
>> Mhm.
>> Because we live near a cruise ship, the
port. So, you'll see a lot of videos
online with these lights. Stephen Greer
takes his his group down there to that
same almost that same beach about about
40 minutes south
>> to look at and you know kind of conjure
up the lights.
>> So they and I have had other friends
since then have the same experience or
similar experience
>> which I thought was super cool cuz he
was out at the beach with his family and
they saw it late at night. They're the
only ones on the beach. They saw them
too. This is like maybe seven, eight
years later. So it's pretty weird stuff
that's happened. What do you think this
Patrick Air Force Based helicopter was
doing? Do you think it was doing recon
on this UFO or
>> I have no idea. It's so interesting.
>> The way it behaved, it was just like,
oh, it's these darn lights again. It It
didn't act.
>> But it looked like it was intentionally
dispatched from Patrick Air Force Base.
>> After that very large bright event,
which was blinding to look at is how
bright it was.
>> They addressed it and went out there and
looked at it and
>> still saw it there, you know. getting
bright, dim, bright, dim. It was very
bright still. Not blinding bright, but
it was very bright. And it just that's
good. I just went back home.
>> Do you ever get one step kookier and
say, "Why did this happen to me? Do you
Does it have something to do with the
work that I'm pursuing?"
>> You know, I don't think so. It happened
to a lot of people have seen these
things. You know, these lights, they
follow cruise ships and boats. There's a
lot of weird videos of it. So, they're
probably just chasing people. Yeah.
Yeah, if I had to guess, I don't think
I'm anything special. I'm just following
people.
>> Well, I might follow the person who's
working on interstellar propulsion a
little more disproportionately. Um, did
you know that Thomas Townsen Brown had a
very similar experience? Totally.
Catalina Island and a little orb light
approached him, literally came up to
him.
>> Towns and Brown had a UFO experience in
Catalina as a teenager. Is that right?
>> Yes. Yes. And I know the exact spot he
was where he was standing. I used to
ride my horse up that ridge. It
approached him.
It actually approached him.
>> And and he said that he learned
so much standing there with that ball of
light that he went back to his which at
what the time was he had a lab in
Pasadena that was funded by his parents.
So he had his own private lab and he
said he went to work immediately and he
worked that was that was the beginning
of his life's work and he said that
everything that he ever learned about
his work he learned instantly
>> everything.
>> Wow. So you got that's so fascinating.
>> I wish I got a download. I would have
been 10 years further ahead.
>> Yeah. Well, may maybe you've gotten a
lot of downloads and you just don't know
it. You know,
>> it's it's always interesting how, you
know, science is treated like, oh, it's
you're just figuring this out like you
figure out the last, you know, term of
an equation on a chalkboard or
something. And often if you were to
probe the scientist in many cases, I
don't know if this comports with your
experience, it's far more like
revelation. It's like, h it just hit me.
You know, it's D Rock. We were talking
about D Rock. D Rock, you know, staring
at the fire in Cambridge and just
downloading the D Rock equation or uh
Heisenberg at Elgoland uh you know,
figuring out quantum leaps and you know,
um probability matrices or whatever
around, you know, electron shells.
>> And so this is a very common experience.
I don't know if you've ever had
>> I would say yeah, some of the the math
is just very discreet. Oh, we'll try
this and big leap there and
>> Yeah. Yeah. And then months go by, oh, I
do try this. Oh, yeah, that works
better. That makes more sense,
>> whether it's experimental or
theoretical. Yeah, it doesn't it's not a
super gradual thing.
>> It it does have, you know, step
functions to it for sure.
>> I don't think if you put one of these
debunker types like Michael Shurmer or,
you know, Neil deGrasse Tyson, I don't
think if they were in front of either of
you, they would be able to beat you in
an argument. Like,
>> well, the argument to have to anyone
just go try it.
>> Go try it. Yeah.
>> Seriously, don't take my word for it.
Yes, go build this thing in your garage.
>> I think they'd be too arrogant to show
up, but I think if Neil deGrasse Tyson
were in a room with your experiment, I
don't think he could explain it. And
that seems like a really important fact
that you have one side that's like
showing an effect. You have 2,000
iterations of that effect. You are an
expert in this field. You've contributed
two, you know, really important things
to the field itself that are
conventionally now, you know, accepted.
and
you say you're getting an effect and
then you have somebody else who's just
smuggly dismissing it. Like I'm going to
go with you over the smug dismissal.
>> Well, you know, that's that's how
science works. You know, it is
inherently skeptical.
>> Yeah.
>> You got to understand everything, the
theory, the modeling, the experiment.
So, I expect it. This is why I didn't go
the peerreview route.
>> Yeah.
>> Per se. I went the other peerreview
route, which is through the
>> Well, it's a good office.
>> It's a good um that's a good attitude to
have. And uh yeah, the patent office.
There you go. Smart. Yeah. Just just
make money off it. Just commercialize
it. Just let you know. Let's just do
that.
>> And if they're wrong, there you go.
>> You win in the free market and Yeah.
Yeah. No, totally.
>> So, it's still peer-reviewed. The the
examiner's office is peer-reviewing it.
So,
>> yeah.
>> But in the meantime, I'll I'll just keep
building away. Keep chucking away.
>> Having said that, I I I like, you know,
Tom Thomas Coons talks about, you know,
in the structure of scientific
revolutions, how science moves more
around politics than it does truth. And
I do think the fact that you lead
electrostatics at NASA is this really
important thing. There is the kind of
you know uh patent you know commercial
route that you can take. You can just do
the kind of startup thing and just win
on your own. And then there's another
part of me where I'm like
you know Neil's bore didn't create the
first semiconductor company. And you
know, if you really are, you know,
contributing to fundamental physics in
the form of this new force,
I I like that you're coming on this show
and that you have videos and you're
telling people to do it at home because
it's hard to know where that even leads
and I hope you know that. Sure.
>> And so I do think um you just letting
this out in a public way I think also
will amount to a Cambrian explosion of
people working on new cool ideas. And I
think the more you let it out, the more
you become a lighthouse for like you
kind of did it first and the other high
agency people who do other variations of
what you you're doing will come to you.
And so I think it's this flywheel where
I I do think being public about it is
the really the right thing because god
forbid I mean you have like all these
other scientists that spend like uh
their lives in secrecy and then
sometimes they you know the frameworks
that they've helped establish just kind
of go away and they're still stigmatized
to this day. Towns and brown being a
great example.
>> So I agree with that. I think getting it
out there, letting people see it, this
is something that's just too important
to be bottled up completely. Let's be
fair.
>> Um, this is a new force. It's just what
it is.
>> Whether it's a gravitational force or
some other quantum mechanical effect,
um, it's too important to just say, "No,
no, no. I'm going to work on it until
I'm done, then I'll let you let you see
it at the end." That's not what this
should be.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, we need this.
>> We need it. We need it now. You know, we
we say we have an energy crisis. Oh my
god, the energy crisis. Well, it could
be considered an energy crisis, but it's
really a force crisis. It's a
transportation crisis. How do you get an
object from here to here? That is the
real problem.
>> Absolutely. And we've been flying with
Boeing 747s or equivalents uh you know
for the last 60 years. It's just crazy.
We've seen total stagnation in the world
of transportation. And so
>> so the world needs this. the world
absolutely needs.
>> If I can help, I I will.
>> Well, I I love that attitude. That's
That's awesome. Um, you mentioned a
patent, a second patent. Your first
patent, there was a national security
hold on it. Is that right?
>> We don't know.
>> Okay.
>> But it's possible.
>> What does that even mean?
Some patents apparently go through the
Department of Defense.
>> Okay.
>> Before they're released,
depending on the nature of the patent,
and some never see the light of day,
right? There's the invention secrecy act
of 1952.
>> Yeah, I believe that's that was one of
the risks that we were aware of.
>> Mhm.
>> Fascinating. Do you So this is the weird
thing about these sorts of experiments.
There is so much smoke not only from
you. I know a lot of engineers who
worked at aerospace corporations, you
know, Locky, Northrup, those sorts of
companies. And they give you a little
wink wink nudge nudge. They often can't
say that there's anything to, you know,
the Biffield Brown experiment, but you
know, it's often you're on the right
path, buddy. And there's weird things
happen with high, you know, electric
field strengths at short distances and
with, you know, big gradients or, you
know, asymmetry, you know, that of that
always comes up and it is there's
something going on. Am I am I wrong to
say this? Cuz look, a lot of the physics
is above my pay grade, but there is just
an overwhelming amount of circumstantial
evidence that there's a there there
here.
It seems like that. Have you met others
who've probably converged um across the
same force that you have? They've
they've kind of stumbled onto it.
I have to think about that. I can't
think of anyone off the top of my head.
Um
but it's possible. I to be fair I
haven't done that much research on the
electrogravitics and all those folks. I
started reading some of the books
>> and there are a lot of books on this
stuff.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh there are ton ton
of these books
>> and everyone has a theory and I just try
to have to sip through that to see where
are the experiments you know cuz you
know the old adage is everyone
>> everyone has a theory but no one
believes a theory.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> But the experimentter doesn't believe
his own experiments but everyone
believes the experiments. But if you
look at how science gets pushed forward
to me the experimental physics is a
bigger tell that the theory is like a
prison or something. And so I I never
like you know this can't work because
theory like I think it's
>> this worked and we have to explain it
with a new theory and it's like the
casemir effect or like some maybe the
casemir effect makes sense in quantum
electronamics. I don't know but there
are a lot of these you know what's a
good example like black body radiation
in the 1860s with Gustav Kirchov it was
should have produced this ultraviolet
catastrophe and it didn't and it was
because of you know quanta which plunk
discovered 40 years later and so there
are a lot of these sorts of examples and
you can't say the anomaly isn't right
because of the theory and there's just
so much anecdotal evidence around this
anomaly
working. Yeah. I I think there are
examples. I gave some of those in the
ape.
>> Some of the examples of what this how
this force may manifest, you don't even
know that you're seeing it
>> like momentum anomalies for spacecraft
when they go around the earth
>> and they get to the Van Allen belts.
They either speed up or they slow down
just by going through the picking up
charge as they go through the Van Allen
belts, which doesn't make a lot of
sense. So they have to actually add
extra fuel to spacecraft to account for
that. They don't know where it comes
from.
>> That's fascinating. So there's all kinds
of things like that. So those momentum
anomalies are possibly attributable to
this force.
>> I I think so. It's possible.
>> And you're calling this the Exodus force
and your company is Exodus space.
>> That's right. Okay.
>> Yeah. The force is really two forces.
>> There's a surface force and a volume
force. We call the surface force.
>> That's actually electrostatic pressure
force
>> um just because it comes from
electrostatic pressure. And then we have
a divergence in the E field force um for
the volume element because the integral
has a surface and a volume component at
least the classical version which is not
truly correct. It's close but it's
obviously you can't explain this force I
think in classical mechanics you have to
use quantum but it at least the
classical kind of steers you in the
right direction because you can actually
build something on that to test it but
to be fair it has to be a quantum
mechanical effect. It's not a classical
effect
>> what we're seeing
>> which has always always been known.
>> Why are you sure it's not a classical
effect?
>> Well, for one, we're not conserving
energy in the in the in the classical
world,
>> right?
>> You know, if we put something on the
scale and we turn it off,
>> it should go off. Um because the fields
are intact, the force remains. So now
we're dealing with something else. Uh
just like the kasmir effect,
>> it's dealing with something else. You
don't need power for the kasmir effect.
>> You can just put two plates in in space
and they will attract. You do not need
to add power for that.
>> It is an artifact of the structure of
the vacuum.
>> This might be another similar thing
>> just in a different light.
>> In um you know in the towns and brown
experiments involving electrogics, they
were capacitor experiments. So you had a
negative electrode, you had a positive
electrode, you had a high K dialectric
in between them.
>> The high K factor which is the ability
to store and discharge easily a lot of
you know high electric fields was this
really important factor for determining
the thrust in the experiment. Does that
make sense in the context of your
experiment?
>> Sure.
>> Okay. So usually if you have a high
capacitance you can store more charge,
right? So more charge, more energy. But
um we have to look at you know we look
at all the capacitances not just the
capacitance between the two plates. Um
we look at the fields and how you can
strengthen the fields. You know
sometimes high capacitance or high K
values high dilectric constants can
lower the fields.
>> So you want a high field depending on
where you're where you want the thrust
to be.
>> So you can tailor some of that with
capacitance just like Towns and Brown
did. Um but it is a field effect. So
those are the things those are some of
the knobs you have you have a lot of
knobs you have geometry knobs
capacitance knobs voltage knobs you have
a lot of things that we can do uh but
how you can explain this force
classically I I don't really know at
least with the conservation of energy
stuff is the you know brown would use DC
pulsing and like you know kind of high
climb rates of the voltage so that the
voltage would there'd be a steep climb
rate where it would you know increase
very very sharply is that also
consistent with your theory or
>> I don't really know. I mean, we try to
stay away from the AC stuff or the very
high slooh rate stuff if we can.
>> Yeah.
>> Damages to the plastics or damages to
the metals, damages to materials, too
many too much current. Um,
>> we we haven't explored all of the
different ways to actually enact it.
We're still exploring the DC versions.
We haven't explored all the different
ways you can apply different voltages
and different currents to it, which is
something we can we have a lot of room
in the future to improve upon, but we're
doing so many variations with all the
other parameters. We don't really need
to change the the slooh rates too much
yet.
>> Do you take issue with the term
anti-gravity or
>> I don't like anti-gravity.
>> Okay. Well, because that is that would
be like an opposite of gravity force or
>> Yeah. or the you like the
electrogravitics. It's very pretentious
to say that we're messing with gravity.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh even Drew calls this warp drive.
>> I'm not there yet,
>> you know. I'm not I'm not there yet with
the bending of spaceime.
>> Yeah.
>> There are experiments to check that.
>> You can use interferometry or something
like that. And I believe the Apex folks
are are looking into that.
>> So, we'll see what they find. M
>> but um I don't know if we need to I
don't think I'm betting space time with
my
my 2,000 volts and you know plates and
wires and needles. I I don't think I am.
Maybe I am, but I don't think I am.
>> But you do think you've discovered an
inroad towards uh propulsion mechanism
that could get us
>> into kind of interstellar travel and
actually deep space travel,
>> which that's amazing.
>> Yes. But I don't know if I'm bending
gravity for that or not. Sure.
>> I don't want to go there yet.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough.
>> You know, cuz if if that's the case,
then you'll go down other paths, other
rabbit holes that I don't want to go
down. Like, oh, well, then you can make
a teleportation device or a wormhole or
this or all that other stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't I don't I'm not ready for
going down those paths yet either.
>> Have you looked into any of the other
kind of exotic physics world work?
People like Ning Lee or other people
who've claimed kind of uh weight
reduction. Have you heard about that?
There's a story about this Chinese
scientist that was working on
anti-gravity and then vanished.
>> Yeah. Real excited about the spinning
superconductor stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz that, you know, my PhD is in high
temperature conductivity.
>> Yeah.
>> And um I was like, "Oh, maybe that's
that's a way to shield gravity,
something like that." Um and then
someone I think NASA reproduced it and
they couldn't didn't see the effect.
>> Okay.
>> So I never did anything with it. It's a
very expensive experiment to do. Yeah,
>> something very large superconductor and
spinning it. Um, superconductors are not
cheap as they weren't in the '90s.
>> Um, but um I I I don't know. I haven't
seen anything that's definitive.
>> Yeah, there's this guy Pleenov at the
University of Tampir in Finland who
claims um weight reduction based on
spinning superconductors. And I believe
there might be a connection between him
and Victor Shawberger. this like World
War II uh Nazi I guess he was in
Austria. I don't want to call him a
Nazi. I he was just like a hless
scientist. But uh he had this whole
model for spinning superconductivity.
And I believe um uh Pleenoff's father
was like uh like Stacey guy who was
doing tech retrieval for the Soviets.
And so you know I think there's some
sort of lineage there. Nick Cook uh
describes this in his amazing book Hunt
for Zero Point. And um and then you have
Ning Lee popping up in the early 2000s.
It's a great book, right? Yeah, it's
awesome.
>> And then Ning Lee has Yeah, he's amazing
by the way. Everybody should read that
book. Nick Cook is a hard-headed
aviation journalist at Jean's Defense
Weekly in the UK and he just stumbles on
to all this gravity research in the 50s
and then realizes it just vanishes and
goes nowhere. and he looks through the
entire lineage and he comes to the very
interesting conclusion that there's so
much smoke there probably has to be some
fire but like never kind of finds a
smoking gun. Never knows exactly, you
know, what the there there is. Uh but
it's it's fascinating.
>> It is. He eventually is like it's
somewhere in America. It has something
to do with zero point.
>> That's right. That's right.
>> And that's where he ended it. So
>> do you think there that in the black
we've discovered some of this stuff? I
honestly don't know.
>> Has I I don't know. That's I just don't
know.
>> Has the DoD ever reached out to you? The
I guess the Department of War now or the
Pentagon or DARPA. Have any of these
organizations reached out to you?
>> No.
>> It's so strange. It's very sad. I was
hoping to be, you know, taken away and
work on some weird UFO project.
>> I know. Well, I mean,
>> hasn't happened.
>> I mean, if anybody should, you know,
deserves it. It's just It's so weird.
It's like it's like they already know
and are miles ahead and they're sort of
gaslighting and waiting for us to catch
up or they're brain dead and it's just
bureaucracy. And I don't know if you
lean on either.
>> Yeah, I I don't really know. Like your
last interview pointed out how few
physicists there were for the retrieval
program.
>> This can't add up. It's it's a twoline
proof. It defies the laws of physics. We
haven't made progress. We have no
physicists.
You know, I thought that was very
interesting because um my wife and I
were approached to help with the UAP.
NASA was doing their own UAP thing
>> and they finished one report and then
there was a second one, a second follow
on.
>> Really? Um I forget the name of the
gentleman who reached out to us said,
"Yeah, we're doing this investigation
again. I'd really like your help." I
said, "Oh, okay. Just put me in with all
the physicists." Oh, there are no
physicists. What? What do you mean
there's no physicists? Why am I the only
physicist? you know, um, and it's an
instruments group, so they're they're
they have advanced instruments to try to
capture these sensors or something I'm
not, you know, quite familiar with. So,
I I don't really have time to join that
group, but I was shocked by that, too.
Like, why are there no physicists here?
Maybe I'm missing something.
>> It's very bizarre. Yeah.
>> Like, you would think there would be
only physicists.
>> That was one of the most bizarre
conversations I've ever been a part of.
>> I was I had to watch that twice. I was
like, are are you serious?
>> Yeah.
>> Why Why wouldn't there not be any
physicists? I don't know. Either again
they've figured it out and they've are
sort of gaslighting us or they have this
limited hangout strategy where some of
the more popular physics frameworks like
you hit certain areas of it and then you
get sucked up or it's brain dead or the
UFO stuff is so weird and
consciousness-based that our physics is
so clearly kind of not equipped to deal
with it that it's like futile to even
deal with physicists. I don't know.
>> But it was weird. Did you you didn't see
my um Gary McKinnon interview, did you?
>> I was just a guy, normal guy, interest
in UFOs. Happened to have some IT
skills. Nothing genius level.
>> You hacked into the Army, the Navy, the
Air Force, the Department of Defense,
and NASA.
>> Do you know who that is?
>> Name sounds familiar.
>> So, this is a guy who he lives in the
UK.
>> Mhm. He was uh in 2001 he was like in
his girlfriend's aunt's basement at 4
a.m. smoking weed, had some IT skills
because he worked with a bank and was a
UFO nut, obsessed with UFOs, and so did
some like basic blank password fishing
techniques to essentially hack into
NASA, Navy, Army, CIA, DIA, like every
elite.
>> Is it the guy that's still trapped over
there?
>> He's still there. Yeah, because there's
a live arrest warrant out for him now.
Terresa May, former prime minister of
the UK, has finally given him kind of,
you know, safe harbor or whatever. So,
he's there. Um, but he can't he's not
allowed in the US. There's he's on the
Interpol red list. And he specifically
queried when he was when he got in, he
was like, "Oh my god, I'm in." And then
he queried the Johnson Space Center
because there were um there was a a UFO
whistleblower named Donna Hair who
worked there who saw basically images of
UFOs being airbrushed out in a specific
building, building 8 there. And so he
looked in and he saw a tic tac object
floating around the Earth like in
Earth's orbit.
>> And the hemisphere comes into view and
it's very blocky but it's kind of blue
and white. So I'm thinking it must be
Earth. And then suddenly there's a big
straight kind of silvery line that is
coming down. Then that's I guess what
they now call a tic tac but of what we
used to call cigar- shaped object.
>> And this was in the early 2000s before
David Fraver's sighting um at Nimttz.
Super wild um and interesting. And then
what so what for our purposes why I
think this was an interesting
conversation is he then stumbles upon a
list of non-terrestrial officers of
which there are 40 and which very
strange right cuz as of now if you look
at you know any of the you know uh
chatgbt anthropic any of these things
it'll tell you that we have like roughly
10 people in space like globally and so
40 people in space that's strange right
and it's the names of these 40 people,
non-aterrestrial officers, fleettofleet
transfers of these specific materials,
and a lot of the materials are highk
dialectrics. And there they seem like
these thinly layered materials. And then
there was like this one material, I
think it's like mulbadinium,
>> malibdum. Yeah, malibdinum. Yeah,
>> malibdum.
Malibdinum.
>> And malibdinum is good for like
alloying. And so we came to the crazy
conclusion on the spot that maybe there
is a microgravity
uh supply space supply chain for
materials for these highk dialectrics
which ironically those highk dialectrics
work well for these experiments for
these you know again the quacky word is
anti-gravity experiments for these
experiments showing this other force.
Okay. So, there's like a space supply
chain where humans are manufacturing
these exotic materials in space that you
literally couldn't uh make.
>> Not physically impossible on Earth.
>> On Earth. Yes.
>> That's fascinating. I don't think has
anybody ever explicitly tied together
your thing like this like we're doing
now or
>> No, this is fresh and unique.
>> I love this. And there there are
commercial companies trying this right
now. So, for anybody who thinks we're
crazy, like that's a thing. And and then
what would you do it with first in kind
of a more of you know like covert
setting? You would do it on things that
are of extremely high value. And you
know if you if you produce materials in
microgravity you know the uh kind of
signal to noise is much better. You know
there's less you know dust and
interference issues. And so you could do
things like you know atomic layering you
know way way easier. And so I wonder if
there's something like that that then
works into some of these experiments
being done.
>> I don't know if you have a take on that.
>> There's a lot there.
>> Yeah.
>> You mean Yeah. I mean, we're working
with high K dialectrics and
>> Yeah.
>> layering materials and different things,
but I have not heard of anything going
on in space manufacturing for that.
>> Okay.
>> Not on my end.
>> But um it'd be very interesting. Space
manufacturing is something NASA is
trying to get more and more involved in
>> because of the some of the reasons you
mentioned.
>> Um,
>> but I'm not heard of any spacecraft
being manufactured in space.
>> I have to ask you while I have you,
what's your best argument for the moon
landing hoax people?
>> Um, I I would say that the uh uh the
lasers that are beaming back to Earth or
you can beam a there's reflectors. We
just put a new one on from Firefly. You
can send a laser, it'll come back. So
that's been there since the Apollo days,
>> but you could put a photo reflector up
there with the rover theoretically. So
it's not super concrete evidence.
>> That's not super concrete, but you know,
we do have a lot of the Apollo samples.
>> Yeah,
>> I have a 200 gram or so in my lab.
>> Do you have some moon rocks?
>> Not the rocks, the dust. The rocks were
given out to different countries and
stuff. I JC probably still has some
rocks. I don't have any rocks, but Okay.
>> It's vastly different
>> than the than the simulants that we play
with.
>> Yeah. It's It's got a very high um angle
of repose. Yeah. So, basically, you try
to turn try to flip it over and it
doesn't doesn't want to flip over. It's
very jagged. It's very different.
>> Um it's interesting stuff. There's no
doubt. It's not weathered. Yeah.
>> It's not seen a lot of moisture, you
know, those kinds of things. It's it's
different stuff.
>> Have there been any bad actors trying to
kind of come in and debunk in like a bad
faith way or
>> um
I don't think so.
>> Okay. I haven't seen any.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
no. Most of the people are, you know,
like the APE folks are, they're open.
They're open to everything.
>> How do you answer the question, why has
nobody done this yet? I mean, the the
other answer to that question is they
have, and we just listed some of the
people earlier who have actually pulled
off the experiment, but do you have a
good answer as to why it takes a bunch
of things to line up?
>> Okay. You have to have high voltage
experience.
>> Mhm. Because these tests can be lethal,
right? They have to be packaged up
properly,
>> put into a Faraday cage or you're going
to get fake positives, false positives.
They'd be attracted to walls or floors
or ceilings. You have to make sure
you're not doing that. You have to
prevent the ion wind, which is very
wellnown fun thing to make. Does give
you some uh forces, but they're not what
we're interested in. Um, so there's a
lot of facets there. And then you have
to have the technical savvy to, you
know, show it in many uh different ways.
Pendulums, spinners, rotators, force
measurements, scales, all of those
things. And each one of those can be
fooled. So you have to make sure that
you are do your due diligence and do
not, you know, get any false positives,
especially on the scales. Everything has
to be shielded pretty darn well.
>> Can I bring up another thing that I
think limits um our ability to to do
this? I think it's um the amount of
people who think it's possible that
there is another force outside of the
conventional forces and so you need a
hypothesis to get you know a positive
result in certain cases and I think if
you are so dogmatically you know
confined to you know very conventional
physics you would never even try this
experiment maybe and so you you have to
have the imagination to you know realize
that there might be a there there to
even try it in the first place. That's
right. That's right. You have to you try
to do something. If you believe in it,
try to do it like I did with the field
momentum, the linear momentum. I tried
that for 15, 20 years. I failed. But
that doesn't mean I had to give up. I
was still seeing a force even in that
even if it had nothing to do with that
theory. Uh so you keep trying. That's
the best thing I can say. You got to
keep trying. If you believe it, if you
keep trying, maybe you'll see something
here. That's the case, I think.
>> And you think that this vindicates the
work of Thomas Towns and Brown, too?
Maybe he didn't understand what he was
dealing with in the way that you do. But
if he says he understood the iron wind
like he said, like he said he did. I he
did things in oil.
>> Mhm.
>> Where you can't have iron wind,
>> then he's possibly came across it. He
might not be the only one.
>> Yeah.
>> People that have played with high
voltage with asymmetrical capacitors
been around a long time. So it's it's
entirely possible that
>> maybe Tesla
>> maybe I don't know if he did much as he
did a lot of energy stuff.
>> Yeah, I don't know either. But um
there's a actually you mentioned
transmission oil. There's a team in
Japan, um, I believe they came out of
Honda, and I think Musha is the
scientist's name, and he claims to,
they've submerged the capacitor in the
transmission oil, which, you know,
apparently doesn't ionize or at least
ionize very well, and they claim some
results, and they kind of have gone
silent, but like they never retracted
those results. That paper's still out
there.
>> So, there's so much of this.
>> There's another group I'm working with
in Germany who's reproducing this. So,
>> really? Yeah. So, it's coming. It's
amazing. Well, I'm really excited to get
into You have a whole theory about how
the thrust works in your Exodus
experiments and it involves quantum
electronamics. So, I asked you if I
could bring a friend of mine, David
Chester, who is quantum electronamic
specialist in a theoretical physicist.
And so, um, are you down to have a group
conversation? We can we can change sets
and, uh, sweet.
All right. So, we have David Chester
here who is a friend of mine. He, uh,
got his undergrad at MIT, uh, PhD from
UCLA, both in physics, and is, uh, kind
of specializes in general relativity as
well as quantum field theory. But I to
me you are the guy who is the kind of
intersection if you have kind of two
circles in a ven diagram of uh kind of
smartest and best credentialed who will
entertain all of the quacky stuff. And
so we've had long conversations about a
lot of this you know extended
electronamics and some of these weird
topological or experimental physics
effects and you really I think
understand kind of the lay of the land
as well as anybody. And I was speaking
with you uh Charles about doing this
interview and you were like I'm
developing this quantum electron
dynamical theory of how this actually
works and I was like I probably won't be
able to say anything about that but
David will. So I'm really excited to
have both of you and maybe we start with
you Charles if you could just kind of
present what the theory is and then you
guys can kind of go back and forth.
>> Sure. No, but this is a good opportunity
to uh talk to a real physicist about my,
you know, my proposed explanation for
the force that I'm seeing. So, um I
don't like to create stuff up. That's
kind of one of my mantras. I don't want
to do that. I want to use what's known
in the physics community to see if it
can explain what I'm seeing. I don't
want to be one of those guys, I have to
come up with a whole new theory. I don't
think that's necessary. Um so my
approach was to say what are the tools
we have now to try to explain this. Can
it be done within conventional physics
that we know just maybe one other step
further or something you know within the
realm of what we already know and we
have a lot of tools in quantum
electronamics. We have a lot of tools.
So I started from what I have in my
experiments basically two charges. So I
have a plus and a minus charge.
That's my starting point. I don't have
anything else. Not as far as I know. If
I'm bending spaceime or doing something
silly, that's beyond my knowledge. But
are there the tools available to
understand the forces in just knowing
what we know with QED with two charges?
QED is very very powerful. Um I found an
example of how QED can solve a very
simple problem which can be easily
solved with electronamics. So let's make
it infinitely more complicated with QED.
And that's what physicists do. Um it's
because it's a more fundamental theory.
So I started with QED to explain
Koulum's law, the force of attraction,
repulsion between two particles. So
that's very well explained with Kulum's
law. But in the context of QED, I found
a book that actually did this. In my
grad school, we were not trained how to
do that. It's not uncommon. There's a
lot of very remedial physics problems
that take two or three hours to solve
that are not going to cover in a class.
But I saw the QED version of it and I
said, "Ah, this is very helpful. I know
where it comes from. I know where the I
know where the momentum's come from. Um
and then you do the math appropriately,
you'll get Kulum's law coming out of it.
And Kulum's law for people not familiar,
can you describe it very basically?
>> So basically it shows that if you have
two particles, their force is related by
one over the square of the distance away
relation to the the charge the charges
that you have. very uh simple
rudimentary physics
>> and it explains things like electron
repulsion, two like forces repelling.
>> It basically explains everything that we
know about two particles, two charges,
just about everything. QED how atoms are
bound together and yeah so I did not
think we needed QC QCD quantum
chromodnamics
W particles Z particles I didn't think
we needed that. We're not looking at the
interactions between protons and
neutrons. So we're not looking at the
high energy um realm. We're just looking
at low energy kulomic charges.
>> And when you say you're explaining uh
the kulom charge with quantum
electronamics, how is it normally
explained?
>> Usually you'll do you know Maxwell's
equations or something simple to derive
Kulom's law. It's not very complicated.
F= QE, right? So we know the electric
field is point part point charge times Q
>> and Maxwell's equations govern
electromagnetism.
19th century.
>> That's right. Okay.
>> But what they don't tell you is how do
these particles interact? Like what's
causing them to repel or attract
>> you know what is the physical mechanism?
QED provides us a nice little solution.
QED says well thanks to quantum and or
fineman and schwinger they are
exchanging virtual particles.
>> So they're not real particles. You can't
see them. You can't observe them but
they're virtual. So basically you can
picture this is the cartoon that people
use. You have two ice skaters. One of
them is holding a bowling ball. They the
first one throws a bowling ball so they
recoil. The second person catches the bo
bowling ball so they fall back. Uh
except there's no bowling ball. So not
real one that you can see but you can
see the interaction between the two
particles.
>> And that's the fman diagram. And what
you do is each time you write a fman
diagram, each one of those lines in the
fman diagram represent a different term.
And you multiply them all up and you get
what's called the scattering matrix
element. And you can try to find how
these things interact. If you were to
take this particle A and shoot it at
particle B, you could see where it
deflects on a board somewhere. If you if
you actually measure that that
interaction is all described in that QED
using QED to solve for to derive Kulum's
law is very complicated. But I found a
book that did it. So I copied that,
looked at what they did. I said, "Okay,
this is a good model. Let me just do one
thing different.
I don't have
just kulum. I have something else. So
what I think it is and what I proposed
now is what would happen if I just went
to the next order. So quantum
electronamics at QED doing Kulum's law
is a second order equation on uh using
time independent perturbation theory.
Perturbation theory is the best tool
that we have in physics. I think bar
none. Perturbation theory it's awesome.
It's outstanding. It's very powerful.
>> What is perturbation theory? High level.
>> High level. So high level you can get
the energy states or the the the states
themselves using pertabbations. Just
change the thing you you change an
energy state. You add that back in. You
do another perturbation. You see how it
changes
>> with a small perturbation of the energy
in this case or the states and involves
so and there are many perturbations. So
I'm using second order perturbation
theory for that's the lowest
perturbation and I think the highest
perturbation for two charges in kulum's
law and after that I don't think
anyone's done anything after that
because you not only get a close answer
you get the exact answer
>> so I was like why go further you have
two particles they either attract or
repel what's cool is all do you need to
go further not so I'm like well this
force with um that I've seen with exodus
electrostatic pressure force
um is much much weaker than coolum saw.
There's no doubt much weaker. But I
decided well let's try the third order.
What does that give me? And when I tried
it with my math, which may not be
perfect, I'm sure I was I was seeing
three charges now. So basically, one of
the charges was weighed twice,
multiplied by itself, and then the third
order is being multiplied by the first
charge. So there's already an asymmetry
sort of in the charges even with two
charges which I thought was useful
because I wanted to try to get that with
classical um uh dynamics and you can't
derive that from classical energy three
charges but the QED was kind of nice to
show that. So I looked at that and I
said okay there's there's not there's no
longer four terms like there are in the
you know the second order.
>> What would classical electronamics give
you if not three? Basically when you try
to do um conservation of energy you
start with a kinetic energy and a
potential energy. And so for adding more
charges to a system you just keep adding
more and more charges to a system. The
superp position principle adds them all
up.
>> It doesn't multiply them all up. It adds
them all up.
>> But I need the addition. I needed the
the pressure that I'm creating working
on the charges that I'm creating.
>> So I have a pressure on one side charge
from the other. So I have a the
multiplication effect
>> experimentally. So I didn't know how to
drive that other than quantum
electronamics but classicalally it
doesn't doesn't show that but I thought
maybe QED might and it shows up there.
Um but that was the first thing and the
other thing there were 12 terms now
instead of four
because I'm I'm scattering. So what
happens in QED or or um time independent
perturbation theory you start from the
zero the state the vacuum state you
scatter to the first state then you go
from first state you scatter to the
second state and you go second state
scatter to the zero state. That's just
how it works. There's a lot of
scattering uh states and um matrices
that you have to solve for and you
multiply them together. So I have 12
terms. Now some of the terms are kind of
interesting.
Uh it looks like that when you draw the
diagrams
from those states that you looks like um
you get the same things you had in
second water perturbation theory where
you'll have a they'll exchange a photon
the other ones will absorb it vice
versa. Uh but there are some states are
a little weird. You'll have states where
they'll just absorb or just emit
>> kind of like the first order
>> which I don't talk about but the first
order is basically just a charge with
field line or not field line but with
basically a charge with a scalar photon.
So you have there's four kinds of
photons in QED. One of them is real. One
of them is observable. The other three
are not.
>> But um
>> two of them are real.
>> Two of them are real. I thought I only
read there's only one of them was real.
Well, you have uh h you have plus and
minus h bar for two different spin
states.
>> Oh, okay. Well, that's cool. Two of them
are real.
>> If it was massive, it would be three.
But since the photon's massless, you get
two state. I mean, light is polarized.
You can polarize it into
>> Okay. I didn't know that apply to
because I just remember the textbook
saying only one of them was real. Okay.
>> But anyway, so these are not real
things. But in QED
um you look at the vertices and every
time you draw a verticy you conserve
momentum at that point.
>> So if a particle comes in it's you know
we use these silly fiber diagrams
they're not cartisian coordinates at all
but they're basically a momentum vector
and then the momentum changes and when
the momentum changes another momentum is
created or absorbed and that's all it
is.
>> You can't think of it any more literal
than that. Um so that's what the that's
what I should you know I see in third
order third order are these vertices
that are even giving out these scalar
photons are absorbing them whatever
these things are in reality is how these
things seem to be conserving momentum if
this model is correct. So that's the
difference between the third order and
the second order. At least what I found
mathematically is that you don't absorb
this. You don't emit this scalar photon
and absorb it in the same pairing with
the two charges. There are cases where
the two charges emit and don't absorb or
>> absorb and don't emit.
>> And what is a scalar photon as opposed
to a photon?
>> It's a mathematical
photon. You can describe it better than
I can, but it has many names. dark
photons
>> and deals with different. Is it
different? I think it is. Anyway, I
think it's just it's a mathematical
term.
>> Okay.
>> It doesn't have the polarization that a
real photon has, right? Yeah.
>> Very different.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just a mathematical
>> term.
>> Mhm.
>> That you put inside the matrices and you
get the
>> I don't know how it works.
>> So, what are the what scalar?
>> It's a scaler. It's a scaler. No vector.
>> Yeah. So the idea of uh just emitting or
absorbing these scalar photons in this
third order perturbation,
how does that allow for this effect that
looks like this new force in
electrostatics or looks like
anti-gravity or you know what you're
kind of experiencing.
Well, what it shows is you have an
imbalance
>> and the system can be made to be
imbalanced,
>> which is weird. So, cuz you're not
enclosing I don't know what happens to
these scalar photons where they go or I
don't even know if they go anywhere.
They might terminate somewhere else in
the universe. I don't know. E- fields
don't do that. They do terminate
somewhere. But uh it does you know show
this weird kind of you know imparting
its momentum onto something that is
already asymmetric. So it's very odd.
>> So where you ever you have these
>> Yeah.
>> Wherever you have these
I think um that's where the field is non
zero where these things exist. Where
these things don't exist is where the
field is zero. So that's the difference.
And it's basically an electric field.
>> And super high level, you end up with
this kind of virtual particle transfer.
And due to conservation of momentum, you
end up with thrust.
>> I think so.
>> Okay. And what do you think, David
Chester? Well, first of all, I want to
commend you on your experimental
efforts. I think you're really brave
with what you're doing, and it's quite
amazing how much data you guys have been
collecting. However, I would just advise
you to be a little careful with some of
the theoretical claims you're making. Uh
first of all, it sounds like you're
saying you can get uh a momentum.
Yeah, you're getting a kick in momentum
in the center of mass frame. However,
typically in QED uh well momentum is
conserved and you still have
translational symmetry. So you're I mean
you're typically not able to
get virtual photons to give radiation.
That's the that's the first thing. So it
sounded like you were saying you you
believe that there's this scalar virtual
photon that is getting radiated out. Uh
there's I see two issues with that. The
first being first of all I mean the
scalar mode in QED is not physical.
Second of all, so you could say maybe
there's some virtual stuff going on in
that, but the virtual particles
typically refer to internal lines
whereas in the FMAN diagrams, whereas
the you know the radiation are the
external lines. So you can't have a
virtual radiation mode in QED.
So that seems to be
>> So what is
>> what is the uh
the equivalent, I guess.
>> I mean, I'm not exactly sure.
>> I don't know what's going I don't know
the best way to describe your experiment
if that's what you're getting at.
>> No, I'm just trying to figure out like
how would you draw the fineman diagram
for just a point charge and its field,
not the self energy, but just the
regular
>> Well, yeah. So, if you think about what
the electric field is, it's the force
that you would get if you had a test
charge located there. So you could
imagine exactly as you're saying uh you
know you it's a four-point tree level
scattering di Fman diagram where you
have two electrons going in two
electrons going out and you could have
it's a little subtle here because it's a
classical phenomenon but there is that
internal line and at first it becomes
virtual meaning it it can have complex
momentum that's offshell but there's
also momentum conservation as you were
saying so that when you do that thyon
diagram and you're integrating over the
momentum you get this delta function
from momentum conservation and that
basically conserves uh momentum such
that you know you get classical momentum
that can be transferred from one
electron to another and then they can
get forced apart and you know we should
it's worth mentioning you can also find
the electric field in classical
electronamics for as many charges as you
want it sound maybe I misheard you but
it sound like you were saying you can't
study things classically for three
charges or something but
>> not that multiplied together. I think
the superp position is an addition of
all the charges.
>> I also noticed so you mentioned that
you're doing time independent
pertubation theory which I didn't pick
that up. So perturbation theory yeah
mathematically it's kind of like a
tailor expansion. So the basic idea is
you can have polomials. So you could
have you know a constant term then a
linear term and then a quadratic term.
And the idea is if you're doing an
approximation, let's hopefully the thing
is small so the higher order terms can
be neglected. And then so perturbation
theory is this approximation scheme that
you can use uh to find solutions to
things. And there's different ways you
can apply pertabbation theory in
physics. Typically when you refer to
perturbation theory in quantum
electronamics,
it's not about time independence. It's
more about when you write down the fman
diagrams, you can have what they call
tree level diagrams and then loop level
diagrams. Typically the the tree level
the tree level diagrams correspond to
the classical interactions. And the
number of loops in the diagram is the
level of perturbation theory you're at.
So the language that I'm familiar with
is you'd have the classical theory is
essentially the zero third order term
and you can think of it as a
perturbation in H bar because H bar is
small that's a kind of way to colloquial
think colloquially think of it and so
you could have a one loop diagram that
would be a first order correction a
two-loop diagram second order so on and
so forth however I mean in quantum
mechanics before getting into quantum
field theory you could I'm pretty sure
that you you could do time independent
perturbation theory. I mean, for what
you're working with, you have a lot of
DC
is DC. So, there's no time dependence,
right? And so, you could look at the
frequency and you could say, well, it's
a really long wavelength
uh excitation. So I'm actually, you
know, I'll have to think more about what
exactly you are doing cuz I had just
assumed that you were doing the typical
perturbation theory of quantum field
theory, but now you're saying you're
mentioning time independent perturbation
theory. So
>> yeah,
>> I've I've seen some of your your notes.
Obviously, you haven't published
something yet, so I haven't,
>> you know, I I I looked through what you
were able to send me, but I I'm just
realizing now that you mentioned time
independent perturbation theory, which
wasn't what I was thinking. So maybe
that it's worth disentangling. Not
saying you have necessarily have an
error there, but um I'm just realizing
that now.
>> No, I mean I you know this is I haven't
done QED in 26 years.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So could you use a refresher?
>> Yeah.
>> But um I I was just intrigued by just
doing the time independent perturbation
theory and getting something. I' love
your help translating some of that. U
the vertices that don't end. I
understand these particles don't they're
not real, right? I can't capture them,
but I pictured them more like electric
fields where you you can't pull the
field from the charge, right?
>> Have you now field line?
>> It doesn't work that way. And that's
what these things I think represent. So
that's why we have things like
reormalization, these really complicated
tools to try to address these
infinities. A lot of infinities here.
>> And that that is a nasty integral that I
have not been able to solve.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm only looking at the
the cartoon picture trying to interpret
it. But if you want to help me with
that, that'd be awesome.
You help with the real math that some I
have five or six kids start to work on
that gamma functions, error functions.
These are not fun things.
>> Yeah, the integrals are definitely hard.
>> They are not hard. It's not a beautiful
solution like Kulum's like it's
different. Does the fact that Charles is
talking about a timeindependent
perturbation which you kind of hadn't
anticipated before the conversation does
that change anything as far as the
viability in your mind with QED or is it
is that something you have to kind of
>> well think about offline?
>> You can do you could you could do
perturbations with frequency
at the classical level. So if you're
claiming it's a quantum effect at some
point I think I believe I mean with the
five diagrams that you would have would
there be any loops in the diagrams that
you've been studying?
>> Well the zero orders are there right the
the non where they start and the end.
Yeah the self energy you're talking
about. Yeah.
>> Yeah. There
>> self energy terms. There's 12 terms and
I think half of them are not very useful
but maybe the other half are. That's the
That's what I'm proposing. Maybe they're
interesting because they don't they
don't close in like you would want them
to. You can't make the picture nice and
neat in your head. It's always it's this
is a game and I love this game because
it's like try to try to use your mind
and our brains are not good at this. If
I take two charges, we know they can
attract and we know they can repel.
But if you didn't see this one and you
see this one go there or go there, your
brain would say, "Well, I can't do that.
Or if I take two charges and I stick
them on a box, don't let them touch.
Take the electrodes away. Are they still
attracting? Damn right they are. For how
long? Forever. So that is a fundamental
property of charge fields which QD I
think explains quite well. So but is it
conserving energy? You know that's what
you have to think about. Is it
conserving energy? still there. You've
removed all your energy to get that
there.
>> Why is it still there?
>> So, there's there's a little mind games
with this. I think kind of helps. I
think this exodus is kind of a here's
another mind game for you.
>> I mean, it it is hard to imagine what is
going on there. I I have to
>> experimentally I I I don't know what's
going on. I it but it's it's curious
because we have nother's theorem which
describes energy momentum conservation
from uh space-time translation symmetry
and nother was actually studying quantum
field theory and discovered something
profound about classical mechanics about
the conservation laws but even still
things are conserved offshell so
it's hard to right as you're saying I
mean maybe there's some charges that
we're overlooking right but there there
honestly It's at the point where if it
appeared as if momentum conservation was
violated, then you would claim that
there's something else there that we
don't understand, right? There must be
something carrying that momentum.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, that's how the nutrino was
discovered. Initially, they they had
these decay channels and they're
counting the energy. They're accounting
for the energy. It's like, wait a
second. This the bookkeeping isn't
adding up.
>> Yeah. And then isn't that how science
kind of moves forward in some ways? I
guess if you were to take your physics
hat off and just as a human being look
at all the kind of overwhelming
anecdotal evidence because I know you've
you've kind of systematically surveyed a
lot of these like weird fringe
experiments and exotic propulsion, free
energy, all sorts of things like that.
And to me, you know, with the without
the any sort of physics background, I
think you almost have to be dogmatic to
say that there isn't some sort of there
there specifically around the lineage of
the type of stuff that that Charles is
discussing. I don't know what what you
would say there. Um yeah, what what do
you think? Because clearly that is a way
often that science moves forward. You
know, if you look at, you know, Thomas
in the, you know, uh, uh, structure
of scientific revolutions, it's this
like anomaly buildup and then that sort
of breaks the dam and then the theory
often is playing catch-up on the
anomaly. Yeah, definitely. It can go
both ways as well. But I mean, certainly
out of all of these weird phenomena that
seem to not fit into conventional
theory, I mean, I would say your
experimental results are, you know, got
to be in the top 10 in terms of most
convincing things I've seen. I mean
there's other groups where they do one
experiment and they're measuring picon
newton forces right we've all heard
these stories and then people get in
debates oh is it some experimental error
>> obviously as you point out you're not
100% sure there could be some prosaic
explanation but the fact that you've
done so many different things and you're
seeing the self-consistency I mean even
as a scientist I have to say that is
encouraging and we should explore this
further it's not something we should
just sweep under the rug and forget
about what would be your best way. You
know, obviously you haven't like
rigorously
uh kind of studied the experiment
itself. You haven't been like on site
with them, but would you have any way of
explaining it away? Like if he is
controlling for and eliminating this ion
wind effect and actually showing that in
a vacuum chamber you get more thrust,
you know, that to me that feels like
pretty pretty convincing. And then
obviously this is being done in a
Faraday cage, you know, so there's no
electric field interference.
Is there any way that you could kind of
poke at it or kind of straw man it from
afar? Honestly, no. And I I've
interacted with Drew multiple times on
APE with Tim Ventura. I've had private
communications with him. I've interacted
with him publicly. I've seen these I've
seen him his iteration rate first of all
is phenomenal, right? He's just always
testing new things, trying different
stacks with different materials and
different geometries, and he's really
dialing it in. It's it's really
impressive the the innovation rate that
he's he's going at and your whole team.
And so, I mean, if if you've checked all
these things that you say you've
checked, right? I you know, I obviously
I haven't been in the lab with you, but
it is I can't think of anything to be
honest. I I I can't think of any prosaic
explanation. And I mean, if you know
there, you're right. There's not much
magnetic stuff going on. There's a lot
of electrostatics, right? Not much
charge moving. I It's just so
mind-blowing, though. I mean, the idea
that the claim is you you power it up
and then you unplug it from the wall and
then the thrust continues in
indefinitely. Well, you know, obviously
you haven't tested it for an infinite
amount of time.
>> Drew would sometimes act as if it would
last forever. I mean, my skeptical brain
is saying, well, eventually
>> wouldn't that capacitor discharge? But
still, even if it lasts
>> a day, you know, it seems like it lasts
longer than a day from what you guys
have done as far as I can tell in terms
of the claims, it's it's it's hard to
imagine how how could that be continued?
Like the fact that it's not getting
drained. You would think, okay, well,
wouldn't it require energy to get that
thrust? Wouldn't that quickly drain the
capacitor? It doesn't seem to be what
you're claiming.
>> You've tested it in so many different
ways that it's
>> it it's it's a tough challenge for
anyone to try to describe what's going
on there. It's very mysterious.
>> You're also friends with and um looked
at the experiments done by Falcon space
in this sort of area in this sort of
electrogravidic or maybe you know new
electrostatic force area. Uh they
basically tried to pull off the Biffield
Brown effect. uh what was your take on
that experiment?
>> Yeah, so it was actually interesting. It
was curious. So it was not
scientifically conclusive. We not all
the experimental errors ruled out, but
there was something interesting that was
seen where
they did the tests at not too low
pressure and they noticed it spinning in
one direction and then eventually they
kept pumping down further and further
and eventually it started spinning in
the other direction which
It's, you know, qualitative. We don't
know how strong the force is. I don't
know what the friction was. They I mean,
they had a a nice mechanism to hold it
up so it minimized the friction using
magnets, which introduces additional
potential errors. But I'm not too
worried about the magnets. But if you're
going to do a demonstration for others
that are skeptical, you should probably
maybe think do it another way. So, it
was I think it was interesting and it
was worth further study. It's suggestive
but not conclusive I would say where
more work is needed
>> because of the the magnets or what what
>> honestly so there there was this other
thing where the way the high voltage was
delivered uh to the thrusters uh on one
end it used the spiraling around the
chamber I mean that's something you
could point at and say ah let's just say
it's that honestly I doubt it would be
causing what was seen but you know it's
something to consider really to get a
confirmed term thing, it's best to do
multiple tests, right? Not just one and
do it in different ways. But really,
another issue potentially was the fact
that there were these discharges that
were observed.
>> And Tim Ventura was actually one of the
first to kind of get a little skeptical
to some degree because
>> he had worked with those ion lifters
back in the day with the triangular ones
and the tinfoil. And so he had worked
with high voltage and he was aware
because it it took me time to realize
this. You would think naively, well,
okay, there's this all this ion wind
stuff and that's because you're ionizing
the air. So you just remove the air and
do it in vacuum and I'm good, right? No
ion wind to worry about. But what if
there's ions or electrons literally
flying off the thruster itself? Or what
if the wires connecting them, we we
could see different discharges that were
occurring. So what if you're you're
you're spraying out these ions. What if
that's causing the force?
>> So it's it's something that it's it's
also amazing to look into it. It's first
of all, it's a challenge enough just to
work with high vacuum systems. Then it's
another challenge. I mean, if you're
you're well aware of this stuff to work
with high voltage.
>> Sure.
>> But then to combine the two, it's it's
remarkable
>> because you Yeah, you definitely want to
enclose everything with the can. When I
saw Mark's video, I I was worried about
the coil
because that would be, you know,
dubious. Why do you have a ground there,
but it's not a ground? I guess it's a
high voltage wire. But, um, it's
interesting that it went one way like
you would expect if it was a corona wind
and you pump it down, goes the other
way. That would be that's cool to see.
>> Yeah. So,
>> but you don't, like you say, you don't
want the discharges. You don't want the
current coming off even under high
vacuum. You'll get field emission it's
called.
>> Yeah.
>> From material. So you want to kind of
make sure you encapsulate everything. So
that would be the only thing that might
be a hiccup is the is the possibility of
field emission, but I have not seen the
experiment. So but that's easy to
prevent. You can coronadop it. You can
>> do all kinds of things to kind of
prevent that encapsulate it.
>> But yeah.
>> Yeah. So I found it encouraging, but you
got to keep studying further. I I think
you know to really get to the bottom of
it. Well, on that note, I know we went
deep into all sorts of, you know, out
there out there theories. Um, but this
was super super helpful. And if if you
were to give Charles any advice as far
as kind of fleshing out his theory or,
you know, um, places to look, what what
would it be?
>> Well, I would say, yeah, so if you if
you're doing you could consider two
different types of perturbation theory
at the same time. So you can do the time
independent one and you can do the har
the quantum corrections as well. So you
could keep track of both of those. It's
a little more complicated. You might not
even need the timeindependent
assumption. But since you're working
with electrostatics, I also see why
you're doing that. So it could make
sense to do that approximation because
it would simplify things. But then you
just got to be Yeah, I mean if it's
truly DC, yeah, it probably would be a
good approximation to do. Um yeah so I
think that would be one thing to do just
um yeah look into reormalization the
self energy uh those per perturbative
corrections can affect the electron self
energy also this is a puzzling thing if
you look at the direct spinner which is
used for electron in quantum
electronamics the spinner field those
equations of mo you can still have
classical equations of motion for a
quantum field and those equations might
have E or H bar or C. So you can get
alpha in thing in classical equations
but it's subtle because it's a quantum
field theory but you know there's a
classical limit there. So yeah I would
say I I honestly just try to learn as
much as you can keep trying to
>> you know we can we can correspond via
email and try to talk more about quantum
electronamics and
>> we'll see. I you know maybe something
more is needed but I think it's a good
effort to at least see where does
quantum electronamics
take you but also just recognize it is a
possibility that the results you're
finding can't be described by quantum
electronamics just keep that in mind
>> yeah you know the reason why we like to
use the QED we haven't mentioned it much
but um because of the alpha that shows
up experimentally
>> you know that's that's really cool some
the fine structure you know showing up
>> terms of the forces and find structure
constant squared. So it's always some
kind of function of alpha keeps showing
up experimentally. There's not too many
experiments you could do in your garage
>> to get you an alpha
>> and that points towards quantum
electronamics.
>> Quantum
>> quantum in general say no one knows
where alpha comes from. I don't think
anyone has a clue but it's there.
>> Why does the fact that a fine structure
constant is showing up point towards uh
quantum mechanical effect?
>> That's a good question. So
>> it's the coupling between fields and
charge is what alpha. So it's not too
surprising.
>> So it's like a it's like a primitive in
quantum mechanics and that keeps showing
up
>> in physics in general and it shows up
all over the place.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> There's also another way to look at it
where you can kind of look at it from a
natural units perspective and just kind
of set H bar and c to one. I know a lot
of people might not like that.
>> Sorry,
>> I don't like that.
>> Yeah, I can understand why. I I get what
you're saying but I mean at the end of
the day alpha is proportional to was it
E^ squ and
>> the the interaction term between the
electron and the photon introduces a
factor of alpha. So once you you have
that fon vertex where you have an
electron positron and a photon there's
like a factor of alpha there.
>> Yeah.
>> And so if you're going to build these
loop order corrections you're going to
need more vertices. So you will require
more factors of alpha as you go out in
the you know the quantum perturbation
theory. However just remember that even
for the kulum force where it's a tree
diagram no loops there's still you could
do a unitarity cut on that photon
internal line and there's still two uh
interaction vertices alpha and alpha
that get multiplied together even for a
classical process. So certainly tracking
uh powers of alpha is helpful in
perturbation theory but just keep in
mind that it comes in at the classical
level as well.
>> It's exciting. Yeah because I've been
doing the driving the orders of
magnitude between third order I think.
Yeah I didn't go to fourth order but
yeah actually fourth order third order
second order first order and you could
see the perturbations in alpha.
>> Alpha is nice to use because it's you
know dimensionless. It's the ratio of um
the energy of two charges divided by a
photon of that same wave wavelength of
where those two how far apart those two
charges are. So that's what alpha is.
It's a ratio of two energies. That's the
best way to to describe the summerfeld
constant. So oh there was something else
I want to mention you too. You had
mentioned the term hidden momentum. So I
believe there is work certainly by the
1980s where if because in classical
electronamics the pointing vector is
what carries the momentum density and
that is proportional to E cross B. And
so there were experiments where people
part of the reason why hidden momentum
is found was in statics as well where
they had an electric field that was
static and a magnetic field that was
static and they're perpendicular. So you
get this E crossb and it was puzzling
because you would have a pointing vector
implying there's momentum but I mean I'm
pretty sure if you just take a symmetric
capacitor with an electric field going
through and then you put it inside a
solenoid with a magnetic field
perpendicular
nothing's going to thrust right and the
hidden momentum is what describes what
cancels out so that you don't get thrust
in those experiments. So that's just
another thing to look into.
>> That's where I started, right? So I
started looking at uh field momentum
being converted into linear angular or
linear momentum. Uh and the crux was
this 1970s hidden momentum which is a
relativistic effect. So even if you have
a magnetic field, a current, you can
always draw that as like a kind of a
square. And whenever there's the Faraday
field, it will accelerate charges in one
loop and decelerate them in the other
loop. So it's basically a kind of a
change of momentum physically of the
loop of the electrons hitting the walls.
That's how they describe the hidden
hidden momentum. So every time you have
a static E-crossB moved like you can't
you have a highly charged electric you
know electric charge to a bar magnet
doesn't fly across the room because of
the hidden momentum. So that can be
scaled down microscopically. So even the
magnetic moments can be pictured as
little currents and they have hidden
momentum. They're relativistic. So I
first started out for last I started
about in the 2000s to look at maybe the
conversion from field momentum to
mechanical momentum could happen like it
does in the angular case but for linear
momentum if there's no hidden momentum.
So what's the opposite of relativistic
charges moving? Electrostatics
>> keep the charges static. Do static
charges possess hidden momentum?
>> And that's my my theory was it didn't.
So that led me down that to that path
where in 2010 I saw the forces initially
could have been something else but
that's where I started and it wasn't
until after two years working with Drew
I said oh Drew's got the he's got the
conversion down from field momentum um
to mechanical momentum without static
charges. My wife pointed that out and uh
so we did the test. So for two years we
thought that's what the case. It wasn't
until 2018 where I realized that I
didn't even need the current. So I'm not
even setting up the E crossb fields
anymore. So this there's two electric
fields and one magnetic field for that
all to work. You have the E crossb and
then you you kill the B to make a second
E field called the Faraday's law field
to convert it into um mechanical
momentum. But if you don't have hidden
momentum, you should see thrust. So
that's what we thought we were seeing
until I realized
just before going on a trip that I
didn't even need a B field or a current.
So oh man, I'm in pure electrostatics
mode.
>> Whoa.
>> So I don't have any field momentum which
was good and bad. Um it led us down this
path. So okay, so now we'll have to
study that first before going back to
that which is far more complicated.
>> Super fascinating. Well, this has been a
really fun discussion. David, thank you
so much for lending your expertise here
and for uh you know, talking to Charles
uh in in a way that's clearly like not
dogmatic about the experimental results
uh uh and then kind of helping sharpen
his his blade on the quantum
electronamics. So, really appreciate you
both.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for having us and it's pleasure
meeting you. It
>> was pleasure meeting you too. Thank you.
Heat.
Hey, heat. Hey, heat.